Amid tiff between Chirag Paswan, Pashupati Paras factions, EC freezes LJP's election symbol The Election Commission on Saturday barred the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the rival groups is settled by the poll panel.

Congress government in Rajasthan will complete five-year tenure: CM Ashok Gehlot Speaking at a programme at his residence here to launch the 'Prashasan Sharon ke Sang and Prashasan Gaon ke Sang' campaign, Gehlot said there was speculation doing the rounds about Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh also after Punjab.

Appeal to leaders of other parties to not do politics over Chhath Puja: Arvind Kejriwal The AAP supremo also urged that leaders of other parties should instead join the efforts of the government in raising awareness on the risks of the coronavirus infection spread involved, if large number of people enter into water bodies.

Those glorifying Godse should be named, shamed publicly: Varun Gandhi "India has always been a spiritual superpower, but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation's spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today.Those tweeting 'Godse zindabad' are irresponsibly shaming the nation," Varun Gandhi, who is not related to Mahatma Gandhi, said.

EC freezes LJP poll symbol till dispute between Chirag Paswan, Pashupati Paras factions is settled "Both the groups shall be known by such names by as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party," the order read.

Post or no post will stand by Rahul, Priyanka: Sidhu "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji ... Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me," Sidhu said.

Travancore board decides to deposit 500kg gold to RBI The Travancore Board has decided to deposit 500kg of gold in the reserve bank of India's gold monetization scheme. The TDB took this step to overcome the financial crisis that they are going through for quite a while now and also to increase the revenue. Sources have informed that the gold identified for the scheme is mostly the valuable ornaments, gold coins, and other things offered by the devotees. It was informed that the TDB faced a huge financial crisis during the Pandemic as it has to look after nearly 1300 temples that come under the board. Now, TDB is expecting nearly a 5 crore annual return from the deposited gold.

Bhupinder Hooda calls for 'introspection' in Congress over Captain Amarinder Singh's exit Amid the ongoing crisis in Punjab and Chhattisgarh units of Congress, Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the party should do a deep brainstorming on the issues. "The dissolution of the Congress party is a matter of concern. The party should do a deep brainstorming on the issues. The current situation of Congress is not good for the country," Hooda said. On Thursday, former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that he would quit the Congress party. This comes as a big blow to the Congress.

Congress needs a strong president, says Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena on Saturday slammed the Centre after Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a meeting with Union Minister Amit Shah in the national capital.