They say everything is fair in love and war. This time around, Ek Thi Begum protagonist Ashraf Bhatkar has declared war to avenge lost love and is ready to raise hell against the goons behind her husband's death.

Played by Anuja Sathe, ‘Ashraf Bhatkar’ is a character we instantly root for. We see her as a demure lady, caring wife and expecting mother in season 1. However, things take a vicious turn when the underworld hoodlums kill her husband Zaheer (Ankit Mohan).

MX Player

Shocked by the tragic news, she loses her unborn child as well. With nothing left to lose, Ashraf decides to go against the underworld, particularly the mastermind behind her husband’s brutal death - Maqsood (played by Ajay Gehi). Season 1 ends with a cliffhanger where Ashraf is grievously wounded by Maqsood’s men and we’re left wondering, “is she alive?”



Why We Liked Ek Thi Begum Season 2

Ashaf Bhatkar is back under the alias of “Leela Paswan” in season 2. This time around, she’s twice as fearless and bold as she was in season 1. She teams up with underworld goon Ashwin (played by Hitesh Bhojraj) who’s a drug dealer.

Take a look at the trailer:





Underworld, police and politicians are hunting for her, but she’s relentless, dauntless and ready to avenge her husband’s death.

Directed by Sachin Darekar and Vishal Modhave, season 2 guarantees an edge of the seat thriller. It’s fast paced, the dialogues are badass, and the performances will keep you hooked!

MX Player

Spread across 12 episodes, this crime-thriller brings to us the wrath, fury, and grit of a woman who’s out to get justice at any cost. She fears no one - be it a gangster, corrupt politician, livid journalist or the police.



Now streaming for free on MX Player, this series also stars Shahab Ali, Chinmay Mandlekar, Vijay Nikam, Resham Shrivardhankar, Rajendra Shisatkar, Nazar Khan, Sauraseni Maitra, Lokesh Gupte, Mir Sarwar, Purnanada Wandekar and Rohan Gujar in pivotal roles.

Take it from us, the show makes for a riveting binge-watch. Click here to start watching!