The perennial hunt for the perfect smartphone is common to all of us. With year-round launches, new updates and fluctuating prices, we often wonder - should we wait for a better deal?

Over the last year, Flipkart has seen almost a 2X jump in its premium customer base, proving how well it is able to cater to these customers. If you have Flipkart Plus, you will get early access to the sale from 2nd October 12 AM onwards. Flipkart is also having a pre-sale from 29th September to 1st October.

For most of us, it is the festive season when the dream smartphone becomes a reality, thanks to the bumper discounts on premium handsets.

Flipkart

I mean, ahead of Flipkart’s Big Billion Days sale this year, the iPhone 12 price has been teased to be as low as ₹49,999. Pinch me, somebody! It’s officially time to switch the gear to premium and get our hands on a snazzy phone.



Flipkart’s annual ‘Big Billion Days’ is slated to shower us with colossal discounts from 3rd October to 10th October.

Brace yourselves for big discounts and bigger bragging rights. Here are 5 premium smartphones to look out for during the Flipkart Big Billion Day Sale:

1) iPhone 12

Rumours are rife that the iPhone 12 will be priced at ₹49,999. Yes! Owing to this never-seen-before price drop, it’s likely that a great chunk of people will finally be able to afford the iPhone. And why not - it’s 6.1" Super Retina XDR OLED Display, 5G connectivity and A14 bionic chip make it one of the most desirable phones in the market.

2) iPhone 12 Mini

While not much has been said about the price of the iPhone 12, technocrats won’t be surprised if it’s available for around ₹40,000, considering the iPhone 12 price drop. This younger apple sibling packs a strong punch with its 5.4" Super Retina XDR OLED Display and is a big upgrade over iPhone 11 with a 5G Support, and A14 Bionic Chip.

3) OPPO Reno6 5G

Flipkart

OPPO Reno6 5G’s futuristic design, outstanding video camera (we mean it!), the dynamic Dimensity 900 chipset, and powerful battery (read: 65W fast charger) make it a strong contender as your smartphone. We all know that ‘camera’ is among the prime reasons that can sway your decisions to buy a smartphone, one should not ignore this model's 64MP triple camera setup. Its Big Billion Days sale price is ₹26,990 with exchange.



4) Motorola Edge 20 | 20 Fusion

Flipkart

Motorola has been a trusted brand for many years and here is this premium series where you can pick the finest phone of Motorola. Motorola Edge 20 has got that every amazing feature that you look for in a smartphone. If you’re usually the person behind the lens, clicking pictures and recording reels - this might be the perfect phone for you. Powered by a 108MP camera, 13 5G bands and a 6.7” FHD + OLED screen, Motorola Edge 20 deserves to be on your “shortlisted” tab.



This phone is available for only ₹19,999. Specific bank users can get it for ₹18,499.

5) Realme GT Master Edition

This multi-tasking phone packs the Snapdragon 778G 5G processor, 65W SuperDart charging capacity, and a 120Hz Ultra Smooth Display. An amazing processor helps in the smooth functioning of the phone while supercharging allows you to click ready in a matter of minutes. Now that’s what we call an impressive refresh rate. Realme GT Master Edition will be available at a never-seen-before discount, at just ₹20,990! On using specific bank discounts, one can get this smartphone for as low as ₹18,499.



The Big Billion Day Sale 2021 will witness major price cuts across all top brands like Google Pixel, Samsung, Vivo, Apple, Realme, Motorola, Oppo, and many more.

While the price drop is mighty enticing, we have some insider tips on making the most of your purchase:

1) No Cost EMIs

Flipkart allows us to opt for the no-cost EMI option while making the purchase. This means 0% interest and no processing fee. How convenient and easy on the pocket is that?

2) Flipkart’s Mobile Exchange Offer

Why not trade your old phone for a new one on Flipkart? One can get a minimum exchange rate of Rs.1,000 on exchanging your old smartphone in any working condition. Of course, the actual rates are higher depending on the age and condition of your phone.

3) Flipkart Smart Upgrade Plan

Under this plan, you only have to pay 70% of the value upfront while buying a smartphone. After using it for a year, you can either exchange it for a new model or pay the remaining 30% and continue using the phone.

This brilliant upgrade plan is available on a wide range of models including the realme 8s, Motorola Edge 20 series, OPPO Reno6 series, realme GT series, realme X series, and more.

The cherry on this wonderful cake is that you can also avail 10% extra bank offer on ICICI & Axis bank cards, and Cashback on Paytm transactions.

Wasn’t that an exhaustive list of smartphone offers and purchase delights?

Well, we’ve got one last piece of mind-blowing news before we let you get down to shopping for your dream smartphone. Flipkart Quick! As the name suggests, this feature brings to us Flipkart’s ultra-fast delivery services - just 90 minutes.

This 90-minute delivery service is currently available in 12 cities - Bangalore, Hyderabad, Delhi, Pune, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Noida, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, and Panchkula, with new cities, added every day.

Flipkart

Keep a tab on Flipkart’s official page to monitor exciting new deets about the Big Billion Days Sale. Happy shopping!

