How far would you go if someone were to destroy life as you knew it?

If your answer is ‘as far as you can imagine’ then we know someone with the same zeal as you.

Doting wife turned the cold and calculative Ashraf Bhatkar, returns with the second season of the highly anticipated Ek Thi Begum on MX Player, where Anuja Sathe reprises her role as Ashraf under the alias of Leela Paswan.

She’s back to avenge her husband’s death with a vow to overturn Maqsood’s (Ajay Gehi) illegal empire in season two. After her husband Zaheer (Ankit Mohan) gets killed, she orchestrates a plan to bring to justice everyone responsible for his death. While season 1 ended on a cliffhanger with Ashraf’s life in the balance, season two will see her break the glass ceiling of masculinity in Mumbai’s underworld with the men in power – gangsters, cops and politicians all chasing after her.

Watch the trailer here:





We followed her life and found her to be a badass woman with a plan and made a list of reasons why we love her!

1. She’s fearless!

It’s not easy to pit yourself against the most powerful and dreaded Dubai gangster. Not only does she want to avenge her husband’s death but also wants to bring Maqsood down to his knees.

Cops and politicians have got nothing on her because she’s on a mission that cannot be halted anymore!

2. She has nothing to lose

Leela aka Ashraf has already lost what is the most important to her - her love. Now she fears nothing. And when you have nothing to lose, you’re more powerful and vengeful.

3. She loves to shatter glass ceilings

She’s just like one of us. Powerful yet emotional. But she knows how to go against all odds for her love, even if it means being the mastermind of sensational crimes. She shatters glass ceilings by standing up against the most powerful people.

Directed by Sachin Darekar and Vishal Modhave, this series also stars Shahab Ali, Chinmay Mandlekar, Vijay Nikam, Resham Shrivardhankar, Rajendra Shisatkar, Nazar Khan, Hitesh Bhojraj, Sauraseni Maitra, Lokesh Gupte, Mir Sarwar, Purnanada Wandekar and Rohan Gujar in pivotal roles.

Stream all episodes of MX Original Series Ek Thi Begum 2, starting 30th September, for FREE only on MX Player.