Sometimes we all wish our future self could swoop in and shake us up and help us make some life choices for ourselves, need some inspiration then look no further. The latest trailer in the Dubai Presents series, Buddy Comedy, features Zac Efron on a road to self-discovery as he travels through an itinerary designed and guided by his future self.

Zac Efron found his future self in Buddy Comedy!

The third installment features some of the most sought-after attractions from architecture to the rich culture of Dubai, with moments of humor and an upbeat music score throughout. So, grab your pals or your partner, and enjoy Dubai just like Zac and his future self did, follow his itinerary, and double up the adventures to make this a trip of a lifetime!

Watch the trailer here!

We made a list of the top 5 places from this trailer that are a must-visit for everyone if visiting Dubai!

1. Hatta with homies!

Feel like escaping the city for a few days? Explore the stunning mountain range of Hatta. Just a 90-minute drive from downtown Dubai, this conservation reserve is nestled amid the majestic Hajar Mountains.

You can also head to Hatta Dam for kayaking, boat trips, hiking, etc. Find yourself amidst nature doing fun activities like wall climbing and zorbing to name a few.

Visit Hatta

Instagram

2. The highs and lows!

Whether you want to dive deep or jump high, Dubai has something for you!

Deep Dive Dubai and Emirates A380 experience will give you an adrenaline rush like never before. With Deep Five, you can dive into depths up to 60 meters into the deepest and biggest pool in the world. Not only can you dive but explore a whole new world inside water.

When you’re tired of diving in the water, you dive in the air with the Dubai Mall which is the world’s largest destination for shopping and leisure. Psst… you can also hone your flying skills by experiencing the inside of Emirates A380 while you’re at it. Know all about it here.

Deep Dive Dubai

3. For the adventure junkies!

Dubai Marina also offers the world’s longest zipline that is also the steepest and the fastest. Measuring one kilometre from start to finish, this zip line will also give you a view of the Dubai Marina skyline while you’re at it.

When you’re done gliding through the city, you can cruise with the Dubai Autodrome by racing with your pals on the lightweight yet powerful BMW M2 or a McLaren racing machine to unleash your daredevil!

Dubai Autodrome

4. Dine in style!

When in Dubai, dine in style. Dinner in the Sky offers a panoramic view of the city along with their delicious cuisine. So, whether you are there for breakfast, dinner, or lunch, don’t forget to experience sitting at a 50m high table that will change your dining experience forever!

When you’re done talking to the wind, you can also try out the world’s highest Ferris wheel at Ain Dubai and toast to your friends!

Dinner In The Sky

5. For some fun in the sun!

Waterparks are so much fun no matter how old you get. They’re even more fun when you are with a bunch of friends! Head to the Wild Wadi Waterpark and jump in the lazy river or slide down from a 32-meter drop on the Jumeriah Sceirah ride. You can book your tickets here!

Water Wadi Waterpark

How many of these places will you be exploring with your friends?

Are you still contemplating travel? Dubai is welcoming international tourists with a valid RTPCR test. So come aboard. All the safety protocols will be followed duly at all the attractions in Dubai.

So, what are you waiting for? Book your tickets with Emirates and get a chance to avail free Expo tickets.