Artificial intelligence has a multitude of benefits in varied industries including healthcare, education and even in the entertainment sector. But a former Google executive claims AI is not the solution, and might as well become a threat to humanity.

Mo Gawdat, the former Chief Business Officer for Google X, a moonshot organisation recently let out a warning against AI in conversation with The Times. The former Google employee believes that current AI research will pave the pathway for an all-powerful being, akin to a god.

Unsplash

Is the machine-pocalypse near?

A machine supremacy apocalypse seems inevitable, if Gawdat is to be believed. Gawdat claims that he realised the true extent of AI potential while working with AI developers at Google X who were building robot arms capable of finding and picking up a small ball.

One robot arm was not only able to pick up the ball, but was showing that off, according to Gawdat. For some reason, the gesture gave off I-am-king vibes to the ex-Google employee, who then realised it was "really scary".

Also read: Youth From Bihar Plans To Use Artificial Intelligence To Spread Climate Awareness In Villages

While AI may in fact become a sentient superior entity on Earth, it still does not appear to be underway right now. And even if that were to happen, who's to say that it won't help its creators live a long peaceful life instead of behaving like murderous algorithms shown in science fiction.

Unsplash

Current AI also has room for improvement

Current AI tech is also causing harm to human beings in the wrong hands. For instance, countries are using facial recognition to police their citizens, limit free speech and impose abrasive laws, as seen in Hong Kong which was forcibly bought under Chinese control very recently.

Also read: Tesla CEO Elon Musk Wants To Hold Artificial Intelligence Day To Recruit Techies For His Electric-Car Company



Unsplash

The biggest issue perhaps is that AIs reflect the bias of the maker and pick up behaviours from humans. This is why many AI algorithms are racist. The tendency to replicate physical world inequalities is called "coded bias".

While these issues may be confronted and solved through deep cleaning and reconfiguration of AI mechanisms, who's to say that one AI will emerge as a pioneer and manufacture a mega-machine species that will rule not only Earth but the vast cosmos?

Only time will tell. In the meanwhile, keep reading Indiatimes.com for the latest in technology and science.