Gandhi's job creation mantra relevant in 21st century: Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai "We don't need mass production, but we need production by masses," he said quoting Gandhi. "He wanted jobs for all, which is very relevant in the 21st century. ​​It is my firm belief that if we tread on his philosophy, we have a great future," Bommai said after paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Late Lal Bahadur Shastri.

Speedy, affordable delivery of justice is legitimate expectation of people: Law Minister Kiren Rijiju The law minister, while speaking at the launch of a six-week-long 'Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), also stressed on the need for strengthening the legal education system in the country.

In Pictures: The Indian presence at the Dubai Expo A six month long event, the Dubai Expo is designed to be a trade showcase for the country as well as for the others that have set up shop in the UAE, designing pavilions and making them a reality, even as the event got delayed by a year.

ED attaches Mumbai building worth Rs 190 cr in case against ex-BPSL CMD The agency claimed a "criminal conspiracy was hatched to dishonestly and fraudulently divert huge amount of bank funds through companies/shell companies and other entities and repayment of the loan amount was deliberately defaulted and inadmissible Cenvat credit was also claimed."

Ladakh LG RK Mathur inaugurates 'World's largest khadi national flag' in Leh LG Ladakh RK Mathur today unveiled the National flag created by Khadi & Village Industries Commission at an event organized by the Indian Army's Fire and Fury Corps,

130 crore citizens should take pledge to make India 'atmanirbhar', powerful: Shah He said this consciousness of the public will lead to constructive action as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through his schemes like 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self reliant India), Make in India and others.

Farmers hold protests across Punjab, Haryana over delay in purchasing paddy The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Friday had given a call for holding protests outside the residences of legislators in both states to register their protest over the delay in purchasing paddy crop.

Uttarakhand govt moves high court to remove daily cap on Chardham pilgrims The current limit is 1,000 pilgrims daily for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri.

Amit Shah flags off NSG's pan-India car rally 'Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama' NSG's car rally will pass through 18 cities in 12 states of the nation and will visit historic places like Kakori Memorial (Lucknow), Bharat Mata Mandir (Varanasi), Netaji Bhawan Barrackpore (Kolkata), Swaraj Ashram (Bhubaneswar), Tilak Ghat (Chennai), Freedom Park (Bengaluru), Mani Bhawan and August Kranti Maidan (Mumbai) and Sabarmati Ashram (Ahmedabad).

Coronavirus India updates: 24,354 new cases reported in last 24 hrs; active infections stand at 2.73 lakh India reported 24,354 new COVID-19 cases and 234 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The new fatalities pushed the COVID death toll in the country to 4,48,605. India has 2,73,889 active cases of COVID as of today. Kerala reported 13,834 new COVID cases and 95 deaths in the same duration.

PM Modi pays floral tributes to Lal Bahadur Shastri on his 117th birth anniversary Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on the occasion of his 117th birth anniversary at Vijay Ghat. The Prime Minister also took to Twitter to pay tributes and said, "Tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji on his birth anniversary. His life based on values and principles will always remain a source of inspiration for the countrymen."

Sonia, Rahul, Delhi CM Kejriwal pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary On the occasion of 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi paid floral tribute to him at Rajghat on October 02. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia also paid his tributes to Bapu.

Lal Bahadur Shastri birth anniversary: Prez Kovind, VP Naidu pay floral tribute at Vijay Ghat President Ram Nath Kovind paid floral tribute to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri at Vijay Ghat on his 117th birth anniversary. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also paid tribute to Bharat Ratna Shastri. Lal Bahadur Shastri shares his birthday with Mahatma Gandhi.

Union Minister Piyush Goyal digitally analyses BAPS Temple 3D model at Dubai Expo Piyush Goyal, who inaugurated the India Pavilion at the expo on Friday, was left with admiration as he analysed the 3D model of the BAPS Temple.

Vision of Jal Jeevan Mission not only to provide water but also to ensure decentralisation: PM Speaking after interacting with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Modi said the mission was village-driven and its vision was not just to make water accessible to the people, but it was also a big movement of decentralisation.

Load More...