With the 30th September deadline to comply with the Reserve Bank of India RBI )’s August 2019 notification for processing of e-mandates for recurring online transactions fast approaching, the online payment ecosystem is set to become more secure. A secure payment ecosystem is the key to stemming financial frauds as India fast moves towards becoming a digital-first economy.The regulation mandates Additional Factor Authentication (AFA) for all recurring online transactions using cards/wallets/Unified Payments Interface. "This new rule adds another layer of security against payment frauds. This is imperative to implement as the card and UPI based transactions might be susceptible to cyber based attacks. Additional approval each time for the transactions gives another layer of security to combat against such attacks," explains Jaspreet Singh, Partner & Leader, Trust & Transformation, Grant Thornton LLP.However, the complexity involved in the implementation is a challenge, which has already led to two missed deadlines. "Complying with the RBI notification requires readiness not just from the banks but also from merchants and merchant aggregators (i.e.) the payment ecosystem. The entire payment chain may not be ready by 1 Oct 2021 leading to disruption of auto debit payments. This will lead to inconvenience for cardholders and payment defaults for merchants. Some of the payment mandates may pass to UPI in that case," explains Munjal Kamdar, Partner, Deloitte India.The framework is targeted to protect customers from fraudulent transactions and improve customer convenience. With banking and payment frauds at an all-time high, running into hundreds of crores every year, this new rule will help safeguard consumer interest.According to Shashank Kumar, Co-Founder & CTO, Razorpay , the RBI guideline takes one step further towards making digital payments safe and secure and building a robust digital infrastructure. The company has built an API solution to help banks comply with these guidelines. “These measures will act as a catalyst in re-emphasizing the need for a secure system that can enable consumers to place their trust in the digital economy. Moreover, this will serve as a boost to the burgeoning subscription economy in the country, across sectors while protecting them against financial fraud,” he further adds.The Fintech Association for Consumer Empowerment (FACE) issued a statement that until further technological development allows for easier & secure recurring payments, this is a practical solution towards consumers’ safer digital-finance experience including keeping their data and identity safe.“Keeping in view the changing payment needs and the requirement to balance the safety and security of card transactions with customer convenience, it has been decided to permit processing of e-mandate on cards for recurring transactions (merchant payments) with AFA during e-mandate registration, modification and revocation, as also for the first transaction, and simple / automatic subsequent successive transactions,” the August 2019 RBI statement read.However, the banks’ preparedness in completing the migration to the new framework has been a point of contention over the last one and half years. The framework, which was initially supposed to go into effect from September 2019 was extended to March 31 2021 on a request from Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) owing to lack of full readiness.The regulatory authority voiced its dissatisfaction with the progress on onboarding existing as well as new mandates of customers as per the framework. With the framework not fully implemented even after the extended timeline, the deadline for migration was further till September 30, 2021. During this extended timeline, no new mandate for recurring online transactions could be registered by stakeholders, unless such mandates are compliant with the framework.