

By Rasika Deshpande

Born and brought up in a small town in Gujarat, Anjar, Fal Ghancha , CISO at DSP Mutual Fund , completed schooling and education till the 12th standard. Fal Ghancha says “Anjar is a very small town with limited opportunities, but I could see the potential here, even though the place is small, we have bigger dreams.”Ghancha says he comes from a family where everyone works and goes to the office every day. His mother and 4 sisters were teachers, and his father was a government employee. Remembering his childhood days, Ghancha says “I am blessed to have a supportive family.Computers have been Ghancha’s dream since childhood. He was always fond of computers. He was 13 years old when his father bought him a computer. “I used to study programming, hacking and playing lot of games on it.”Talking about his school days, Ghancha says that he was always a backbencher. He didn’t like theory subjects, but he was passionate about practicals.“During those times, internet connections used to be very slow. I and my friends used to do a lot of mischievous stuff, we used to hack ISP modems, landlines, individual passwords. During my college days, I used to hack computers, make viruses. I remember using the same virus, I had infected all computers in our college laboratory”. I enjoyed doing practical’s more than theory and experiment new stuff. I used to be passionate about projects. Someone used to do my homework and I used to do their projects,” he reminisces.Ghancha loves traveling, specifically road trips. He loves traveling to new places and most importantly – Self-drive. “I feel fun is in the journey and not the destination” coming from a Gujarati family, our focus was always to explore food options and try to variety of things.Ghancha studied computer engineering at Nirma University in Ahmedabad. Ghancha says that because he studied in his regional language up to 12th standard, initially it was a bit tough for him to get acquainted with a new language, surroundings, competitions. However, he got good friends and he learned new languages and skills. “I was a very active student in college. Our college gave many opportunities. I was the campus coordinator, used to interact with organizations.”Ghancha was very active in sports, his funda with sports is to fully enjoy it. He says he was not a pro in any sports however he still took part in every sport with full enthusiasm and spirit.Ghancha loves playing chess, he was state champion in the “under 17 tournaments” and was a gold medalist in college. He still plays chess online, more like on holidays and travel time.Work-LifeAfter college, Ghancha started his career with a company called Smart station. Later he got the opportunity to work with the Welspun Group. “Welspun was a long stint for me”. From that job, I got the mantra of my professional life. “If you get success on something, take credit however if you fail, take full responsibility”.Talking about work stress, Ghancha mentioned that “Working as CISO gives autonomy, however it comes with a lot of stress, responsibility to take quick decisions and many times turns out with risk and tremendous stress”. In search of mental peace, Ghancha tried all possible western solutions however found peace in “Dhyan” - Indian ancient tradition “Yoga & Meditation”. Ghancha started practising regularly. “Breath exercise, meditation & Yoga, game me better health and accurate decision power, thanks to my Guru at Art of Living, have learned a lot from them.”Challenges & OpportunitiesGhancha says whenever he sees a challenge or someone says, ‘this is not doable’, he likes to give it a try. Sharing an incident, he says, “a couple of years back, we got a challenge of performing organization-wide disaster recovery drill. People were saying that this is not doable, difficult to achieve, and came with a history of failure of 10 years. I said, “ok let’s try a different approach”. Let’s take inputs from everyone, learn from leaders, and take learning from all past experiences. I was a bit scared, but we could complete it on time and with the expected output. We got grand appreciation from everyone including top management”.He believes that every technology leader is a change manager for the organization. Difficult projects are risks that everyone should keep on taking. It comes with a tremendous opportunity of learning new things. That’s how you learn and grow.He adds that “Work from home has been challenging for everyone. A small task that can be completed within an hour in the office can take 4-5 hours or days when you work from home. Initially, reaching close to weekends, I felt exhausted, felt demotivated. We tried so many options to boost up the spirit, taking periodic breaks and talking to the team around different topics including politics, innovation, social media, etc that small-time also reduces stress and gives the motivation to go back to work.”Ghancha says, after retirement, he would like to spend more time doing community work. He always wanted to help people. He feels he owes something to the community. Ghancha would like to do something for the future generation. He wants to mentor them, train them about technology, cyber security and share his experiences.Family and FriendsHe is blessed with daughter Tananshi. He mentioned, “I am so lucky to have a beautiful wife and a cute princess. I love to spend time with them.Ghancha is a family-oriented person. He is blessed with daughter Tananshi. He mentioned, “I am so lucky to have a beautiful wife and a cute princess. I love to spend time with them. We celebrate every occasion, functions together. Be it birthdays, vacations, housewarming parties, or marriages, the entire family of 21 members, celebrate it together. I feel proud of mentoring my nephews & nieces, they are on their career path becoming IITian, NITian and CA.”Talking about friends, Ghancha says he is very close to his friends. He shares joy, sorrow, good and bad times with his close friends. He feels life without friends is meaningless. “I love spending time with them, cracking jokes, adventure ideas, laughing on random topics. My friends make the world a better place for me.”