The cyber threat landscape is evolving at an alarming pace, and ransomware, phishing, and data breaches have become big areas of concern for organizations. In the kind of traditional work environment that existed until a few years ago, Chandan Pani , CISO, Mindtree , one of India’s largest IT consulting companies, would have described security with just three Gs – Guard, Gate, and Gateway. However, as Pani now says, the manner in which organizations need to approach security has changed dramatically in recent times, especially since the pandemic began.When India first went into lockdown last year, Mindtree, which has over 28,000 employees, was quick to implement a work-from-home (WFH) model. While this move ensured the safety of employees, remote working made it impossible to secure the physical boundaries of the company’s IT and security systems. With no direct visibility into the work environment, Mindtree, therefore, focused on decentralizing its security infrastructure to make it more secure.“We concluded that we needed a holistic system that could cover the entire threat landscape. That’s when we chose to invest in the Microsoft suite of solutions, including Azure Sentinel and Microsoft 365,” said Pani. “It enabled us to simplify and decentralize our security infrastructure. Now, we have solutions that can speak to each other, and I can view the entire organization from a single pane, without any blind spots.”By enabling a unified view of all security concerns and making it easy for Pani’s team to interact between consoles and solutions, the Microsoft suite has reduced the time for deployment and implementation substantially. Microsoft 365 has also minimized human intervention in identifying problems, while Azure Security Centre has given Mindtree a robust set of solutions to look at its Cloud workload.In today’s world, with people being increasingly exposed to the internet, every person is a potential point of attack for cyber criminals. There was thus a need to create greater awareness among employees at Mindtree on the matter of cybersecurity . To achieve this, the company looked beyond traditional methods and employed the far more engaging and enjoyable gamification method. They used Microsoft 365 to run phishing simulations to see if employees could identify those attacks.As a major IT company with a clientele across Asia, Europe, the Americas, and Africa, Mindtree takes data privacy and regulatory compliance very seriously. “Companies are required to comply with privacy standards, which often differ across countries and regions. Earlier, the key objective was only to secure data. Now, there must also be a clear distinction between different data types. Companies also need to know things like where the data is stored; which laws apply to the data; whether the data can be tagged; how long it can be stored; and what the life cycle of the entire process is. Such mandates will only increase in times to come,” opined Pani.Mindtree fulfils these requirements by using Microsoft’s Azure Information Protection solution, which allows it to label different data and offers the flexibility to look at how the data is being treated; where the data is being stored; what components exist in the data; what kind of security policies and treatments are required, and so on.Now, as the pandemic-induced restrictions get eased out, Pani believes that companies will have to be flexible in their approach to ensure successful implementation of a hybrid work model. “It depends on the configuration of the environment. Companies can ensure a seamless transition between office and remote working by deploying the same minimum controls in both setups. We will also have to start thinking about moving towards a zero-trust framework to adapt to the new normal,” he concluded.