In the simplest terms, ransomware is a type of malware that threatens businesses and individuals to publish their data or perpetually block access to it unless a ransom is paid. The ransom warning on your screen is to inform you that your files can only be released using a decryption key. Data breaching and ransomware attacks are becoming more common with time. One of the most common delivery systems is phishing spam. There are several things that the malware in a computer might do once it’s taken over the victim's computer. There are many ways the attackers choose the individual or organisations depending on their security teams and systems.Whenever experts work with ransomware victims, they spend some time looking back through their telemetry records that span the previous week or two. The telemetry sometimes records behavioural anomalies that (on their own) may not be inherently malicious, but in the context of an attack that has already taken place, could be taken as an early indicator of a threat actor conducting operations on the victim’s network.Few indicators are certainly an indication that attackers have poked around on the network prior to the attack: to get an idea of the network layout and to learn how they can get the accounts and to access, they need to launch a ransomware attack. Attackers use legitimate admin tools to set the stage for ransomware attacks. Without knowing what tools administrators typically operate on their machines, one could easily overlook these indicators and data. In hindsight, these are some of the indicators that represent you may be attacked:Attacks typically start to identify the target organisation by finding if its a Mac or Windows workstation, what’s the domain and company name; what kind of admin rights does the computer have. The attacker gains control of one machine they can use as a foothold. Next, the attacker will want to know what else is on the network and what they can access. The easiest way to determine this is to scan the network. The synchronised first indicator could be to detect a network scanner, such as AngryIP or Advanced Port Scanner, contact the admin staff to find out more about it. If no one recalls using the scanner, it's time for you to investigate.The next thing attackers might do as they get admin rights is they will often try to disable security software using applications created to assist with the forced removal of software, such as Process Hacker, IOBit Uninstaller, GMER, or PC Hunter. These types of commercial tools are legitimate but are in the wrong hands.If you detect anything unusual happening at the same time every day, or in a repeating or regular pattern or tempo, is often an indication that something else is going on, even if malicious files have been detected and removed. Incident responders know it usually means that some other malicious activity has been occurring which hasn’t (as yet) been identified.Sophos offers layered IT security for defending against the latest ransomware. Sophos provides threat intelligence sharing between all the security points and offers the best protection at every point with synchronized security. Sophos XG Firewall prevents attacks from getting onto a network. In the event ransomware does happen to get onto a network, Sophos XG Firewall can automatically stop ransomware dead in its tracks thanks to integration with Sophos Intercept X. Sophos Intercept X Advanced with EDR includes anti-ransomware technology that detects malicious encryption processes and shuts them down before they can spread across the network.The Sophos Managed Threat Response (MTR) service adds human expertise to an organisation’s layered security strategy. An elite team of threat hunters proactively look for and validate potential threats, and then disrupt, contain and neutralise attacks.For more information about the ransomware attack and how to protect your data, click here Disclaimer: This article has been produced on behalf of Sophos by Times Internet’s Spotlight team.