Mangaluru: As the state is mulling over a cyber security policy in the wake of rising cyber attacks, industry experts have called upon internet users to follow digital hygiene.Ritesh Chopra, director, sales and field marketing, India and SAARC countries, NortonLifeLock India , told TOI that the pandemic has changed data consumption pattern in the last six months. The cyber crime impact is not only about financial loss. Threats such as deep fakes are getting bigger with the use of artificial intelligence and cases of synthetic identity theft, a combination of fabricated credentials where the implied identity is not associated with a real person is also emerging. “In the wake of rising threats, it is important to start making decisions on how we want to build a basic profile of our digital lives. It is no longer about getting excited about a new app. Mobile security is real, and it is not about virus threats, security software is now a priority. Being aware of the digital profile is the key,” Chopra stressed.On an average, a consumer uses about 30 apps per month. In the future, because of the penetration of app culture and advent of 5G, just like ransomware was affecting individuals, cloud hijacking may hit at an individual level. The time spent on mobile phones has grown by 35% between April-June. On an average Indians are spending more than four hours on a smartphone. A study revealed that the time spent on apps such as video calling has increased by 71.11%, OTT app platforms has increased by 82.63% and there is also a 40% increase in the time spent on weight loss and fitness app downloads. Meanwhile, there is 150% growth in adoption to digital sessions, noted Chopra.Security policyBengaluru being the hub for tech companies, it naturally becomes the prime target for cyber attacks. “As we welcome the state government’s plan to introduce a robust cyber security policy in a bid to strengthen its digitization efforts, the industry is looking forward to the measures to be implemented in the new cyber security policy. This move will emphasize the adoption of data protection measures and stronger policies that shall protect the privacy and interests of customers, businesses, and the public at large, said Rajesh Kumar, director, cyber security, Netrika Consulting India.Seshadri PS, senior director, office of the CISO, Unisys, stressed on the need for robust approaches towards implementation of cyber security policy including the adoption of zero trust model.Rakesh Kharwal, managing director (India), Cyberbit, said, “We expect the cyber security policy to mitigate surged ransomware, DDoS, and malware attacks, provide awareness on phishing emails, malicious advertisements and work from home policies. The government is expected to initiate a strong WFH policy which includes mandatory use of antivirus, regular updating of systems, 2-factor authentication, strong passwords, encryption of emails and ensuring privacy. It should also include cyber security training for corporates and officials in the government departments.”