Are you reading this article at your work from your home corner? This is an overnight requirement for employees to struggle with keeping up their productivity from remote areas.While our economy is rattling with the impact of COVID-19 Coronavirus healthcare companies are the warriors equipped with new age technologies. But, take a minute to think about the pressure level on the IT teams of healthcare firms to keep their operational efficiency while fighting with this virus Aster Innovation and Research Center is a good example of how CIOs should tackle the impact of Coronavirus-caused disruption.Dr Satish Prasad Rath, Chief of Innovation at Aster Innovation and Research Centre has started video consultation services for patients which can be remotely accessed. Though in India, there are regulatory challenges for remote healthcare consultation, few healthcare organisations like Aster DM have implemented this for the sake of this pandemic situation.“We also support mental health services for healthcare workers and patients in anxiety and stress. With support of Wysa, an AI-driven virtual platform for mental health, we are helping people to fight with any sort of trauma,” Rath said.The company has invested in technologies such as IoT to monitor a patient's situation and AI/ML-based platforms with analytical capabilities for performing clinical trials on an emergency basis.Other than healthcare firms, organizations around the world are taking proactive steps to maintain operational continuity as much as possible. In such a pandemic situation, CIOs are looking forward to expanding IT access and capabilities in developing digital workplace resources and digital technologies to cater business needs.“The value of digital channels, products and operations is immediately obvious to companies everywhere right now. This is a wake-up call for organizations that have placed too much focus on daily operational needs at the expense of investing in digital business and long-term resilience. Businesses that can shift technology capacity and investments to digital platforms will mitigate the impact of the outbreak and keep their companies running smoothly now, and over the long term,” said Sandy Shen, Senior Director Analyst at Gartner.Kapil Mehrotra, Group CTO, National Collateral Management Services feels CIOs need to build a strategy to support needs of remote employees and digital fulfillment to ensure business continuity in these times.“First thing IT should check is the remote working capability in and segregate laptop and desktop users first. Next step should be the deployment of endpoint monitoring agents and restrict the access as per the role, responsibility and company policies. The IT team should check readiness of access to all critical applications over on Web/VPN and to support other critical action, data Security and access management must be reviewed and validated,” highlights tips and tricks for the industry,” Mehrotra said.In the wake of the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic, global businesses are relying on platforms such as video conferencing, business messengers, etc. As companies are scrambling to pivot their operations at this WFH phase, video conferencing is among the vital tools which are highly invested these days.Acting in the need of the hour, Cisco has expanded the capabilities of its cloud-based web and video conferencing service. Cisco Webex enables global and virtual teams to collaborate on mobile devices and standards-based video systems in real time. Today this service is free in all countries where it is available. This comes with the additional features of unlimited usage (no time restrictions) and support of up to 100 participants. Additionally, Cisco is providing free 90-day licenses to businesses that are not Webex customers.“There is an unprecedented increase in remote working happening worldwide, which is growing exponentially daily. On March 16 - we held 3.2 million meetings globally on WebEx. In the first 11 business days of March, we had 5.5 billion meeting minutes globally. Traffic on the Webex backbone connecting Webex users to their global/local workplaces has increased several times since the outbreak began.Since the outbreak began, there has been a 22x increase of traffic on the Webex backbone connecting China-based Webex users to their global workplaces. During the same time period, we also saw a 2.5x usage increase in the APJC region,” said a Cisco India spokesperson.In India, Cisco has reported 2 million Webex meetings in the last two weeks. This includes one-on-one meetings as well as multi-party meetings.Companies like Microsoft on the other hand are not just seeing a surge in usage for its collaboration platform but also using it aggressively for internal purposes.“Today organizations are relying on video conferencing. Within my observation in Microsoft, every meeting is now a Teams meeting, often with video. We‘re using features like background blur to block out our naughty kids, our barking dogs, and our mismatched furniture,” Jared Spataro, Corporate Vice President, Microsoft 365, said.With efficiency and adaptability of work from home culture, there is a significant hike of concerns. Government regulations and cybersecurity are among the few risks for companies while introducing WFH strategy.“In India, we have a regulatory environment that is different from the rest of the world i.e. disallowing PSTN-IP integration, OSP licensing of work sites for contact centres etc. this makes it very challenging for employees to work remotely. Relaxing these rules will go a long way in ensuring that employees can work remotely,”Ankur Goel, Managing Director for Poly India, said.COVID-19 has created a major chaos across the globe, thereby bringing every industry under its grim shadow. Today, hackers are preying on the fears of the outbreak and cyber-attacks have seen an upsurge. Malwares such as Emotet and LokiBot are widely distributed through phishing emails on COVID-19 across Indonesia. It may sound disturbing, but hackers have also invented a technique to steal data by tweaking the brightness of the system.“Now that companies have switched to work from home - using electronic devices and applications more often, the chances of planting a range of malware into devices or playing with the system remotely becomes easier as they may face the possibility of functioning with little or no IT support. As such, both employers and employees need to take care to protect themselves as well as the company’s confidential information. We have observed companies leveraging Multi factor authentication, remote access security and other important measures even for employees BYOD policies as well. With the amalgamation of technology and employee training, attacks can be mitigated safely and efficiently,” Saurabh Saxena, Country Director – India, Micro Focus said.