BHOPAL: An online fraudster allegedly called a 55-year-old woman posing himself as a cop posted in the CRPF and lured her in his trap, saying that he was transferred to Bhopal and wanted to take her house on rent.The woman had posted online to rent her house. The accused sent his ID card to trap the woman and sent her a QR code on the pretext of paying advance rent. As the woman entered her UPI linked payment wallet PIN, Rs15,000 was deducted from her account. She filed a complaint with cyber crime branch and a case was registered at Bag Sewania police station on Thursday.Investigation officer SI Tinkle Yadav said that the complainant Kumud Tripathi , a resident of Bag Sewania area, in her complain stated that she had posted an online advertisement to rent her house. She received a call on her mobile number on February 21, when the caller introduced himself as a cop . He told her that he was transferred to Bhopal and wanted to take her house on rent. He sent her a QR code and asked her to scan it. As Kumud scanned the code, Rs 15,000 was deducted from her bank account.In another case registered at Ayodhya Nagar police station on Thursday, complainant Divya Mishra, (26), wife of Shubham , a resident of Archana Parisar in Ayodhya Nagar, told police that she had applied for a job online. On September 10, an unidentified accused called her and offered her a job opportunity. He sent her a link to complete her details tand siphoned off Rs1.05 lakh from her account.In yet another case reported at Ayodhya Nagar, complainant Akanksha Katare, a resident of B-Sector Rajeev Nagar, filed a complaint with cyber crime branch that unidentified accused hacked her UPI ID and siphoned off Rs1.25lakh from her account on September 16.In another case registered at Piplani police station, complainant Rohit Sharma , a resident of D-Sector Piplani told police that an online fraudster posing himself as a bank official siphoned off Rs28,000 from his account on the pretext of issuing a new ATM card.