Increase in complexity of tools, multiple solutions to solve similar problems

Skyrocketing costs of security products

Solutions that are promising getstalled

Rise in non-value-adding work because of consolidation and dis-integration

A significant rise of security debt (training overheads for various security products) leading to a lack of security talent

By Vishal Salvi Rapid digitalization and disruption are the norms of the day. We are constantly exposed to cyberattacks that are becoming increasingly sophisticated, frequent, and causing irreparable losses. It is a herculean task to predict cyber threats , monitor, track, analyze risks, and prioritize and remediate vulnerabilities.Companies are continuously increasing the spending on cyber security controls – and yet cybercrimes are rising exponentially. The impact of cybercrime is growing every day, especially in the pandemic, where hybrid workspace and digitization are becoming fundamental business needs. Data reveals that despite efforts by governments, regulators, enforcement agencies, analysts, academics, organizations, security software, services vendors, we are currently losing the cyberwar to a relatively small group of dispersed adversaries. So, how did we get here?I am starting a series of articles touching upon macro issues related to the ecosystem, society, psychology, and market to reveal the fault lines that plague Cyber Security. I hope to gain the necessary insights and foresight for building a secure future digital world. Let me start the discussion with the dissonance in the goals of different stakeholders in Cyber Security.While the security software’s primary goal is to mitigate an identified cyber risk, market performance parameters such as the number of customers, revenue, and profits take priority. Seldom, reduction of cyber risksis considered as a measure of good security software.For decades, many security software start-ups have been trying to solve similar problems. Large companies are not investing enough in R&D and instead resort to acquisitions, often consolidating, integrating, and selling out repeatedly. Every new feature or functionality is packaged as a new component and sold separately instead of embedding them into existing solutions to make better profits. Therefore, collectively the value creation is not proportional to the investments, and the results are as follows:The industry needs significant collaboration to fight cybercrime, but commercial interests become barriers to working together. Cyber Security solutions are expected to be sentient and need intelligence for effective orchestration. However, every major security brand has its own intelligence feed, creating duplication of intel and gaps in the management of threats. Additionally, privacy and regulation interpretations make it difficult to share information across entities. Compared to this, the fraud as a service market is highly collaborative with deep trust among stakeholders (buyers and sellers), assured, and therefore quality and timeliness of service.In 2020, banks had to comply with 120,000 pages of regulations. On average every year, 900 regulatory agencies issue 200 updates globally every day. Often, the work done to meet compliance does not directly translate to the real work that is required to stop the attacks. One needs to be agile when responding to cyberattacks, whereas most compliance acts require digital evidence of the execution of a control.In a hyper-connected digital world do we really need so many controls? Most multinationals spend a considerable amount to comply with security mandates that are unique to different countries for solving the same problem. This adds large overheads and does not deliver collective value.A great example of a well-accepted global standard is PCI-DSS. We must take this as an ideal example and simplify compliance.Commercial interests and general dissonance across different stakeholders are impeding value creation for Cyber Security. We observe a general lack of common taxonomy, standards, simplification, and open systems. Some work has been done in building common and open standards but not enough to make an impact.The overall growth of the Cyber Security industry is creating value for organizations. But it’s time we as an industry are held accountable to curb the rise of the annual costs due to cybercrime. Given that it’s so dispersed across different entities and stakeholders unless we start this as a collective virtuous movement, we will not be able to escape this conundrum.The author is Chief Information Security Officer & Head of Cyber Security Practice - Infosys