It is good for people to understand the business strategy behind the apps they are using, Will Cathcart , global head, WhatsApp , tells, as the Facebook-owned messaging app delays implementation of its new and controversial privacy rules that allow increased data sharing with its parent. As the Mark Zuckerberg-run social media giant moves to monetise WhatsApp through commerce and payments, Cathcart says India remains at the centre of the focus. Edited excerpts:We want to be clear the policy update does not affect the privacy of your messages with friends or family in any way. We recognise there has been some confusion over the past week and want to help set the record straight. This update includes changes related to messaging a business on WhatsApp, which is optional, and provides further transparency about how we collect and use data. This has become all the more important over the last year with people needing to conduct commerce remotely. We’re building new ways in the near term for people to shop on WhatsApp and for businesses to manage and respond to messages.We remain available to answer questions and explain our continued commitment to privacy and security of users across India. India remains at the centre of focus at WhatsApp; we listen carefully to feedback we receive.We’ve thought long and hard about how to build a business while maintaining the privacy and security of people’s conversations. That’s what we’re building now. And ultimately, we think it’s good for people to understand the business strategy behind the apps they are using. That’s why we announced our plans years in advance. For example, businesses can display what they are selling right within a chat and (help the consumer) ultimately make a purchase. We plan to charge some businesses for these services while keeping the app free for people to use.We know we have to compete for users’ trust when it comes to privacy and that’s very good for the world. People should have choices in how they communicate and feel confident no one else can see their chats.Privacy is always top of mind at WhatsApp and I think that will never change. We’ll continue to engage with everyone in India on the importance of WhatsApp, the role we are playing in personal communication as well as helping enable millions of businesses.