In an interview with ETCISO.IN, Advocate Prashant Mali , Cyber Law expert gives his views on the evolving role of a Data Privacy Officer and how organisations can allay the GDPR regulations.GDPR and impending privacy laws overhaul the way organizations store and manage data.Ideally, CIO or CISOs are accountable for the GDPR. But organisations need to identify their Data Privacy Officer (DPO) enshrined with GDPR & Privacy responsibilities. This person should be the mix of technology and Legal acumen.In my view, General Counsels or Head Legal along with CISOs should take up responsibility; if no clear role about privacy is defined. Large organisations having EU presence have already taken steps towards GDPR compliance and these organizations can be segmented into three –1. Those who know that they should be compliant; I say 70% of them may have achieved it2. Those who knew and have started late, 20% may have achieved compliance3. And then, there is a category that is still waiting to be fine.India may have its own Data Privacy Law, which would be more or less mapped to GDPR. Indian law would also have criminal punishments along with civil penalties. GDPR though deterrent only has civil ramifications.Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is clearly defined in GDPR. CISOs or General Counsels would need to run a GDPR implementation engagement after taking stock of data stores within their organisations. BFSI & Telecom sector are already aware, as their regulatory compliance has some points covered in GDPR.Organisations need to build in Privacy culture within, hence there has to be documented and implementable training program linked to remuneration. Organisations need to device their individual dashboards to monitor consent flow and consent gaps, which enables them to know accepted legal risks. Organisations should have the strategy to exert their compliance standards on outsourced vendors.The biggest gap is employee’s illiteracy towards Data privacy & GDPR. DPO has a techno-legal role. Moreover, we cannot define and couple the DPO with CISOs role, as CISOs already has cybersecurity responsibilities.Making Privacy Policies, which are custom made, is also the need of the hour. Privacy and Cybersecurity sessions to board members bring in sense of urgency and then it percolates down well.(Image Courtesy- Flickr