“In accordance to GDPR, data breach can be defined as breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, unauthorized disclosure of personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed. In the event of a breach, each firm should carry out its internal assessment, including whether the breach is sufficiently serious to notify the Supervisory Authority (SA) and affected data subjects. The incidents involves hacking ransomware , and phishing etc. are all upfront examples of breaches that should be reported to the SA. Also the GDPR states that an organisation should notify data breach to the supervisory authority within 72 hrs. It should be informed to the data subject as well, if it poses risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject. Hence, organisations should have an internal incident management workflow (extended to the third party vendors through contractual measures) to ensure that the breaches are notified to SA and data subjects as per the defined timelines and format” Jaspreet Singh , Partner- Information Security, EY explained.As the GDPR comes into effect on 25th May, 2018, the cost of non-compliance could be about to skyrocket. GDPR will be raising the bar in every respect, considering that it would help enforce breach reporting and punitive sanctions.Multinational companies deal with European Union resident’s personal data, as the EU continues to be a significant market for the IT/ITeS/BPO industry in India. “Indian companies that engage in data processing also gain access to such information as a part of their day to day operations, bringing them within the ambit of the regulation as GDPR. India does not have any strong regulations and data privacy laws, hence, organisations will have to put in a lot of effort to prepare for the GDPR as non-compliance with the regulation may lead to restrictions on conducting business in the EU” Singh added.The organisations will have to confront a penalty as high as 4% of their annual group turnover or 20 million euros whichever is higher. Thus, with 60 per cent of the Indian respondents being unfamiliar about the new regulation of GDPR, compliance with GDPR becomes imperative for Indian organizations to continue business in the EU region and empower their customers, through enhanced data protection framework. “Only 30-35% of the IT/ITeS companies have started their journey to work towards GDPR compliance journey and it is anticipated that many organisations will not be ready by the given timelines” he highlighted.There hasn’t been another security and data protection initiative, such as the GDPR, which has been the focus of so many discussions including those with customers and prospects. “Its emphasis on critical security aspects such as security of processing, inclusion of privacy by design and default, lawfulness of processing, encryption and pseduonymization of personal data and conducting data protection impact assessment has not only enhanced the overall security but has also brought transparency in processing of PII” he said.The EU security requirements are complex and demand constant surveillance. The CISO’s need to work with other groups such as legal, SCM, business functions, including third party vendors within the organisation, understand the requirements and how the organisation classifies, processes and handles data are critical components to successful GDPR compliance.Singh further emphasied “It is vital that CIOs/ CISOs are familiar of the landscape when they work with companies based out of EU and are processing the personal information of their data subjects. Moreover, companies need to understand that data security is not just an IT problem or a compliance issue, but a significant concern that the entire organisation. The CISOs need to implement adequate technical and organizational controls and identify the practices they have in place and test them to see if they're strong, relevant and effective.”With recent incidents around data privacy and forthcoming timeline of GDPR enforcement, further Singh suggests that CIO/CISOs of Indian organisations will have to expedite their compliance journey and work towards the following measures:-Conducting current state assessments to analyse the underlying pertinent gaps-Reviewing policies, procedures and existing privacy programmes;-Developing the operational structures needed to facilitate compliance-Reviewing lawful processing basis and third-party contracts and security controls-Creating user awarenessImage courtesy- Flickr