Understand the GDPR for yourself, instead of relying on the opinions floating-in from the multiple sources. GDPR is not that difficult as it seems to be or to implement either, it is just the implementing process which is tedious” Advovate. Puneet Bhasin Cyber Law Expert said.GDPR specifies many requirements and a good opportunity to ensure the environment is better protected. As the clock ticking down to the deadline to comply with the EU’s new GDPR regulations, organisations are approaching to comply with the new framework governing data protection for the modern age.Exorbitant fines of up to €20 million or 4% of global annual turnover (whichever is higher) are outlined in the legislation for organisations that fail to adhere to GDPR or that suffer a data breach.The company does not penalize if it is compliant with GDPR provisions. “The penalty may not be as high as it is mentioned. Depending on company’s levels of readiness, if they are completely non-complaint then the organizations will attract high penalties. And if they had been compliant with the GDPR provisions, despite that there is breach; so the penalties are low considering the levels of compliance. It could also include a directive which might ask for audits or compensate the user” Bhasin explains.CIO or CISO has already been contributing to the digital transformation, but now his role gets enhanced. So as a Senior Security Risk Officer, he will be performing those duties under GDPR which will make him responsible for the entire concept of the data policy framework, data mapping policy within his organisation.She further said “GDPR emphasis on the internal cyber security policies framework, data mapping policies, implementations and all of this cannot be driven by a Data Protection Officer (DPO). DPO is only going to overlook the data flows and audits.”The Chief Information Security Officer will lay down the cyber security framework, who has to be a board level member. Hence, definitely a CISO or CIO can take up this role.Cyber incident, response and cyber security policies are the key pillars. “Under GDPR, there is no bullet proof strategy. Rather it requires a reasonable strategy and basic framework and guideline. It starts from data mapping, building data privacy framework within the organisation, proper policy implementation, incident response team formation, breach notification and, data flow mapping determining who, how and where is the data getting access control” Bhasin said.There is lot of myth around GDPR in the market that it is complicated to comprehend. “GDPR seems to be a demon that needs to be tamed off; rather it simply requires a structured framework.”Bhasin further describes the initial steps for implementing the GDPR.Data Mapping. Map the data that is floating within the organisation, identify the relevant data and who has the access to the data. Then install the security check controls with the data.Structuring the cyber security framework. Next, start framing the privacy framework, cyber security frameworks; initiate the audits and other kinds of frameworks which are necessary for the organisation. iSO is just a information management framework, here organisations needs the cyber security implementation.Comply with data subjects. Now organizations will need to comply with data subject, access request, handling the data and subject rights. Then data protection impact assessment begins, along with breach reporting and incident reporting.Policies. Lastly, develop policies for breach reporting and incident response, frameworks to implementing these policies within the organization.India and the rest of the world are on the same sides in terms of GDPR. It’s just the other countries have taken GDPR more seriously; hence many of them are on the verge of compliance. Whereas in India, we do not have the data protection law like US.“India is in the process to get a Data Privacy Act, which should be implemented by the early next year; which is very much similar to GDPR. This will enable oganisations to be complaint to their own National Law” she added.