Internet of Things is acting as a game changer in the security segment and the whole scenario can be bracketed into the human element and the technology element. Punjab National Bank, for instance would be a good example to understand the human element. This means if a human being is trying to consciously do harm, the systems and processes have to ensure that it is not allowed. Also CISOs need to understand the potential security threats that come with the connected devices.With IoT , security threats have gone outside the traditional data center. For instance we have operational technologies and automation equipment coming into play. When we have sensors or devices connected to these kinds of equipments, they become threats to security. Here, the main challenge is that the operational teams or the floor managers do not communicate with the IT teams.Hence, it is crucial for these teams to interact with each other and bridge the security gaps.Security needs to be looked from end to end at all levels-Hardware level, Network (LAN and WAN), Communication and at the end device level.The main challenge is the cost of deploying security equipment. For example, a simple sensor which is generating data and communicating to the network has no anti-malware software attached to it, so the cost of deployment is low. Once we decide to attach the software to the sensors, then deployment becomes an issue. Therefore, the simplest way is to ensure that the data needs to be authenticated at the source of its generation.The simplest way is to authenticate the each device that is coming into the organisational network.Second, enterprises should deploy a system through which the content that is being generated through these devices get stored and tracked remotely at regular intervals. Segregation of the data and the networks need to be ensured.The other approach that CISO’s or CIO’s should follow is the profiling of the device and examining the device behaviour. The kind of traffic or data that is been generated through each of these devices have to be known and studied. There should be a triggered alarm for any unexpected behavior.There can never be a single solution or technology that solves all the problems. The biggest challenge for enterprises is that the equipments are historic, while the technologies that are attached to these equipments are new. We have different vendors for each service and the security concerns, thus become different. The CISO’s here need to ensure that there should be a homogeneous environment in their organization’s infrastructure.The simple fact about any technology is that it only lasts till the time it is not threatened. Hence, the systems and processes need to be stronger to deal with the threats.