In an interview with ETCISO.IN, Vishal Salvi , Chief Information Security Officer, Infosys, discusses about how security is a facilitator for data privacy. Further he talks about enhancing data privacy while turning compliant with EU’s GDPR and the rise in innovative attack vectors in 2018.While the technologies are new, the approach for security can remain the same. The challenge here is two sided. Firstly, CISOs need to have better technology solutions to address the risk associated with IoT. Secondly, need to improve the awareness levels of the users and installers of IoT systems. There are different stakeholders in the IT teams who are better aware and prepared to deploy the system securely.The process of securing critical data on cloud is double-edged. Building new security stacks to manage the cloud adoption and extending the existing on premise controls to cloud wherever possible.Enterprises are required to adopt their own path to manage the secure cloud platforms and the security teams need to develop a clear strategy to support that path.Security is an enabler for data privacy and once the CISO has articulated the organisation’s privacy goals, one can help them get implemented and enforced through the security controls. CISO should have all key security controls already operating and required to perform a gap assessment against the privacy goals and the actual implementation, and then fix the weak areas.In another dimension of security and privacy there is a conflict between these two. In such situations, there has to be a governance mechanism to be put in place to ensure that both the risks are discussed and a decision is taken on what should be the stance taken by the organisation.Organisations need to perform data discovery to understand the extent of usage and also proliferations of data across the enterprise. Once this is done, CISOs can define the policy of data retention and protection not just within but outside your organisation.• Appointing a Data Privacy Office in organisation where it has not yet been formed.• Formulating a Privacy Policy.• Performing a gap assessment against the policy and implementation of the gaps.• Certification from a 3rd party on readiness and compliance.If you look at the past, the frequency and new vectors of cyber attacks have only increased year on year. Also the digital revolution is demanding exponential growth and innovation of ICT infrastructure. Both these trends make me believe that we are certain to experience more innovative attack vectors in 2018 and we should gear up to encounter these challenges and build systems to thwart them.