In an interview with ETCISO, Rishikesh Kamat , Vice President and Global Head of Managed Services Business – Netmagic, discusses about how CISOs are strategizing network security with AI and machine learning investment.“Network breaches have become a hot target for hackers. CISOs should prepare a multi-layered security strategy to secure the network from next gen threats ”, Rishikesh Kamat, Vice President and Global Head of Managed Services Business – Netmagic (An NTT Communications Company).As organisations are going under digital transformation, they are increasingly under the threat of a cyber-attack. Threats can manifest themselves as either external or internal entity. External threats can be either targeted or opportunistic.Each organisation will have a different risk profile and accordingly CISOs need to strategically mitigate the threat. For a manufacturing company, protection of IP can be utmost importance and consequently protecting from internal threats. Solutions such as security analytics, anti-malware and data leakage prevention become important in such scenario. On the other hand for an e-commerce company, threats such as application attacks, DDoS are more critical. For most organisations, opportunistic threats such as ransomware develop a major challenge to efficiency and compliance. CISOs should strategize an escape and recovery based plan to mitigate data breach risks.With the wave of digital transformation, IT environments are becoming more integrated and complex. In such scenarios, detecting existing breaches and preventing new ones are a challenge as security teams need to sift through volumes of information. For such cases, security solutions based on Big Data platforms and using machine learning techniques are most relevant as they help to find out the relevant information quickly as well as map out the undiscovered threats.Organisations should invest in security solutions that leverage AI, machine learning and Big data applications to combat next generation threats. The non- traceable nature of next gen threats is severely affecting the ability of security teams to keep threats at bay.CISOs need to prepare a response plan and data recovery system to combat such deployments. Organisations should secure their host servers as well as implement SSL to restrict any malicious entry. Third party attacks are also very common, CISOs should focus on establishing a secure outsourced network and the data center.Network breaches have become a hot target for hackers. CISOs should prepare a DNS security strategy. As when the host gets affected by the malware, it stops working in the isolated ecosystem. By the means of DNS, the affected host leads to command and control server transacting to the outsourced infrastructure. This process is below the radar of organisations and hence benefit the hackers to loop in.Organisations should invest in DNS protection solutions to monitor the host requests in such failures and analyze the IP addresses for any malicious gauge. CISOs should look at the layered approach around server and firewall grid to provide a more effective security.Risk mitigation is one of the foremost trend in the CISO community. Disaster recovery system is one of the key approach which is trending among CISOs to de-risk their security strategy. As businesses are going digital, risk of unavailability and integrity of critical data being exposed is on hike. Disaster recovery solution is helping CISOs to mitigate that risk.So in the crisis of being attacked, organisations can migrate there operational systems to the DR and initiate an instant recovery process to save their systems and applicationsRansomware protection solution is another trend among CISOs. After witnessing several organisations being affected by opportunistic ransomware, of which Wannycry gained more prominence, mitigation strategies against ransomware have become centerstage. CISOs are actively investing in ransomware protection solutions along with backup solutions to ensure availability of data.Security solutions that Netmagic delivers are specialized with a layered protection framework built upon industry leading tools. For example, we have a threat hunting system developed on a Big data platform. It feeds several form of data and analyze the threat on a real time platform. Big data helps us to add more volume in data sources and reduces the time in analyzing process.We are coming up with machine learning modules which can analyze the historical data. Based on the analysis we can monitor any new threat. We recently launched a server host protection system, its prime role being to protect against Advance persistent threats including malware, based on McAfee secure back end. We are planning to launch a system based on honeypot and detection technology. Honeypots provide an early warning signal which are tuned to attacks targeted towards the organisation. This results in very specific threat intelligence that can be used along with other security tools.We are working with partners to monitor DNS as a threat vector The solution will monitor the DNS requests across the board and identify potentially malicious communication between infected hosts within the network and C2 servers outside the network.