The board wants IT leaders to be ahead in the digital era; the end-users expect smooth mobile experience at work and do business through multiple digital channels. Resulting in a bit of cybersecurity mishmash and creating the various gateways for hackers.“Big enterprises with huge infrastructure and security structures are lacking in their basic security hygiene” Rajpreet Kaur , Senior Research Analyst, Gartner embarked while speaking to ETCISO at the Gartner Symposium, Goa.As the digital business is evolving, so is the cybersecurity landscape. It is nearly impossible for IT managers to identify the advance malware that could be capable of breaching into their network. “To build an optimum network and strong road-map, security should be enhanced in the phases. Those who are planning to build a security roadmap, are advised to begin with adopting the best practices for basic security hygiene and get their foundation right” Kaur added.A CISO must commence with asking himself “Is my network secure enough, and what else could be exploited?”Rajpreet Kaur further describes five basic security hygiene including the three Ps. Kaur defines three Ps as Passwords, Privileges and Patches which are most likely to be exploited by the sophisticated malware.The advance malware will always try to hack the passwords, and just strengthening the passwords is not enough. It is critical for enterprises to adopt the best practices for Password management effectively.Enterprises should adopt the best practices around system hardening.“We are well aware of not sharing the admin privileges. Still, we witness incidences of privileges not managed adequately.”After fixing the above-mentioned 3-Ps, enterprises need to get their foundations right and then speak to their business leaders, understand the risk to the business and correlate it down to the infrastructure.The application-based attacks are gradually increasing, so the enterprises must induce the mature application security management program.“Every organisation practices vulnerability assessment fortnightly without meeting any business values, just for the sake of performing a mandated program.” Hence, enterprises need to own a mature Vulnerability Management program.“These five basic security hygiene practices are my priority because enterprises need to constantly train their end-users as there is a huge gap. The hackers will find some administrative privileges and unpatched systems to be breached. Consequently, enterprises must ensure that there is nothing that could be exploited by the end-users” Kaur said.