In an interview with ETCISO.in, Navdeep Singh Ahluwalia , Head Network & Information Security, Dalmia Cement Bharat discusses about why CISOs should indentify and prioritize the most critical business processes, systems and vulnerabilities. Further he gives is views on how should CISOs go about ROI justification for security, since the benefits are intangible and qualitative.The way technology is evolving – digitization is the need of the hour for business growth but on the flip side the technology is also increasingly exposing the businesses to the cyber attacks.Risk and threats involved are dynamic; hence CISOs should prioritize the most critical processes, systems and potential sources of attacks or vulnerabilities. The risks should be analyzed and appropriate measures should be taken for dealing with the unpredictable.Sometimes it is better to factor in the losses, rather than looking at gaining back the costs when business is interrupted, data stolen, compliance requirements breached or reputation down the drain.Digitization requires a holistic approach towards risks involved and change in security perimeters. Moreover, security gaps need to closed and monitored as hackers have advantage over defenders.With the increase in data breaches globally the responsibility for security and integrity has now become a part of executive management and board of directors, along with IT. Security is a matter of enterprise-wide risk and not only the responsibility of IT department.Board of various organisations is aware of the growing cyber risk but still sufficient measures are not being taken. But with growth in awareness the expectations are changing.Board expects CISOs, to regularly present the cybersecurity issues, findings and strategies. Quarterly meetings to be held with discussions on different vulnerabilities in the cyber space with their impact on the business, security budgets, and accordingly decisions to be taken.They want their CISOs to implement a model that establishes a quantitative estimate for cyber risks, exposures, and potential damages to better align business objectives and security goals.On a day to day bases the security requirements are evolving as per the technologies we are deploying, followed up with new malwares or virus. So to protect the businesses, CISOs deploy new solutions, resulting in the huge investments. Therefore the correct abbreviation should be ROSI i.e. ‘Return on Security Investment’.CISOs need to specifically relate the associated potential cost with the liability that may be caused by security breaches. Evidences of security risks can be shown by getting a security audit done via third party.For organisations and nations whether small or large security cannot be considered as an investment – yielding returns. It is an expense that pays for itself during breaches. Security is all about preventing loss to a company or country.The convergence of technology with objects, buildings and biological advances has reduced the boundary to a thin line between humans and machine. There is an increased pressure at the enterprise level to incorporate new technologies in order to meet business requirements.Machine learning and its automation is gaining popularity in the field of artificial intelligence and cognitive systems.Cyber-attackers are leveraging automation technology to launch strikes whereas progressive organizations are exploring the use of same in their day-to-day cyber risk management operations.