By: Kapil Makhija Technology and data are fast becoming inseparable from businesses. So when IT systems fail, or when data is lost, or becomes unavailable, the impact can be major. And when that happens, customers might not receive their orders; suppliers might not receive due payments; or even worse: personal details can get into the wrong/malicious hands.All these impact trust When an organization loses the trust of its stakeholders, it is bound to fail. Because, trust is the foundation that helps any organisation to take responsible, calculated risks - and if, during the process mistakes are made, organizations can rebound from them only with their stakeholders backing them.A hyper-dynamic cybersecurity landscapeWith data acknowledged as the new currency, the spotlight is on how well nations and businesses can safeguard their data, as they look to extract more value from it. Rise of the digital economy has immensely contributed to global growth and equitable inclusion. However, the world is also witnessing a new set of cybersecurity complexities, particularly around data theft and abuse.To make matters worse, cyberattacks are rapidly increasing. A recent study by the University of Maryland estimates that there is a cyberattack occurring every 39 seconds. Further, Cybersecurity Ventures estimates that, by 2025, cybercrime might cost companies nearly $10.5 trillion annually. This is particularly worrying.Why? Because it places cybercrime at the core of perhaps the greatest transfers of economic wealth in history. Not just large enterprises, SMBs are also at risk, with the global average cost of a data breach estimated to be $3.9 million.The India scenarioIndia has jumped up 37 places and is ranked tenth in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). While the Government is strongly focused on strengthening India’s cyber-defense, businesses have no choice but to strengthen their cyber-defense in every possible manner.Per the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) data, this year alone, over 600,000 cyber security incidents were observed until June. In the wake of the pandemic, with remote work becoming the norm, the challenges have only multiplied. Data losses caused by breaches and cyberattacks on organisations, governments, and individuals hit record-breaking levels in 2020. According to the Wipro ‘State of Cybersecurity report’, cyberattacks went up by 47 percent, while 70 percent of businesses faced challenges with endpoint hygiene, in part due to the surge in remote working.How, then, can organizations sustain trust - and therefore, business success?With cyber security incidents increasing significantly in the country y-o-y, it’s time for Indian organisations, irrespective of their size and industry, to relook at their cybersecurity strategy and its impact on business sustainability.CISOs need to acquire greater cloud expertiseIn the new normal, CISO roles will demand greater cloud-centric expertise. So CISOs need to become more engaged and hands-on with digital transformation and business initiatives. This is particularly important to ensure that cybersecurity is properly integrated into evolving business models as well as all aspects of IT. Further, to reduce risks, deploying an agile, robust security control framework is the key.On their part, technology providers need to ensure security isn’t complex, and is always-on by default. I strongly believe this should become a standard industry practice.Intelligent, reliable security: the key to building a sustainable businessNew and intelligent security tools, which use cloud services and new applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) and venture beyond just malware protection, can help. For example, advanced security automation, offered by next-generation clouds can reduce the time, resources needed to manage user access manually, while reducing human errors at the same time. Analytics solutions with autonomous capabilities, using advanced AI/ML, can enable companies to quickly identify and respond to security issues, empowering organisations to better protect themselves from cyberattacks.Making sense of data security in a hybrid/multi-cloud worldMost customers I speak to also highlight confusion or lack of adequate awareness around the shared responsibility model for security in the cloud. Per the findings of the 2020 Oracle and KPMG Cloud Threat Report, 96 percent of IT professionals said they are familiar with the cloud security shared responsibility model. But what’s concerning is that only 8 percent fully understood it, for all types of cloud services.With hybrid/multi-cloud environments on the rise, accountability and clear segregation of responsibilities becomes all the more important. Responsibilities need to be clearly defined and agreed on by the customer as well their technology providers to avoid the risk of misconfigurations, software vulnerabilities, human errors, and process redundancy.How to make your business - and data - secure by default?That security must be data-centric, is quite obvious. But how does an organization ensure it?You can start by asking some of these questions: is your cloud provider delivering built-in security controls? Do these include isolated network virtualization and strict separation of duties? Do they offer always-on encryption and continuous monitoring of user behaviour?A next-generation cloud architected by using security-first design principles can help to a large extent. Because the provider can take on greater responsibility for the systems and data that run not just their operations, but that of their customers as well.In summary, to ensure business longevity and build/sustain trust, a security-first strategy, where data security controls are always on and updated by default, is essential to sustain business success in this decade.The author is Head-Technology Cloud, Oracle India