When Daimler, the maker of luxury vehicle brands like Mercedes-Benz and Maybach , had to move critical post-sales customer data – such as age, address and drivers’ license number – to the public cloud, it used confidential computing to protect this data.Confidential computing is emerging as an answer to security and privacy concerns in the cloud, as data breaches become commonplace, and companies deal with more and more regulated and crucial data.Nataraj Nagaratnam, Fellow and chief technology officer at IBM Cloud Security, illustrates confidential computing using the example of a hotel where there are multiple guests in different rooms. If a guest wants to store something safely, she would use the personal locker in her room. Once a guest sets the locker key, the material inside is safe and even the hotel staff cannot access it.Confidential computing tech, Nagaratnam says, allows building of such safes or enclaves where customers have complete control of their data. This hardware-based trusted execution environment (TEE), as it is called, not only protects data when it is at rest and during transit, but also when it is being processed. Encryption services could protect the first two. Confidential computing protects even at the processing stage by allowing the data being processed, and the techniques used to process it, to be accessible only to the authorised programming code. It is invisible to all else, including the cloud provider. The data is secured inmemory just prior to being decrypted for processing. Akhilesh Tuteja , global head of cyber security consulting at KPMG, says confidential computing is at a nascent stage and is a breakthrough technology to enable security and privacy by design. “All industries will benefit, particularly the healthcare and financial services industries, when they process sensitive personal data. The industries relying on distributed machine generated/machine read data – such as Industry 4.0, connected cars, etc – will also benefit as they can allow stronger security controls for data being exchanged among sensors and cloud,” Tuteja says.Nagaratnam noted that IBM, which started research on confidential computing over a decade ago, has started providing the technology to players across sectors, including financial services providers and automobile players.A consortium, led by Google, Microsoft IBM/ Red Hat , Intel, Alibaba, ARM, Accenture, Facebook and Huawei, is helping define open standards for confidential computing, and accelerate its adoption. The technology will likely further accelerate adoption of cloud.