Cricket Australia deserves to be commended for categorically stating that it will not host the November 27 one-off Test at Hobart against Afghanistan since the Taliban has just announced that Afghan women will not be allowed to play any sport in public. The deputy head of the Taliban’s cultural commission Ahmadullah Wasiq has just announced on SBS TV that “In cricket, they might face a situation where their face and body will not be covered. Islam does not allow a woman to be seen like this.”

BCCI, as the organiser of the Men’s World T20 Tournament (scheduled to be held at Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Dubai from October 17 to November 14), should immediately request a meeting of the International Cricket Council (ICC) to discuss the Taliban’s latest ban on women’s sports.

The Taliban regime’s latest stand on banning Afghan women from participating in sports goes directly against the stipulated norms of the International Cricket Council which categorically states that ICC member-countries have to promote women’s cricket. It is, therefore, not surprising that the captain of the Aussie men’s national cricket team, Tim Paine, has now stated that, given the Taliban regime’s declared stand on Afghan women not being allowed to play any sport, Afghanistan should not be allowed to play in next month’s World Men’s T20 Tournament, and that countries like Australia would rather forfeit matches than play Afghanistan.

Paine is the proud father of four-year-old Milla. When Tim Pane’s wife Bonna is working in their hometown of Hobart in Tasmania, Milla walks the dog with her dad and accompanies him to the neighbourhood coffee-cafe. When Tim Pane jokingly asked Rishabh Pant to babysit the kids at a New Year’s Day get-together for both teams at the Australian prime minister’s residence on January 1, 2019, there was that photograph of Milla in her father’s arms reaching out to her little brother Charlie who was being carried by the Indian wicket-keeper.

The ICC’s lacklustre response to the Taliban’s latest ban on women’s sports is that it is concerned about the issue and will take up the matter at its next scheduled meeting in November. By that time the Men’s World T20 Tournament will be over.

Imagine viewing a televised World T20 Tournament match involving Afghanistan when the TV news-channels are simultaneously showing women protesters being whipped on the streets of Kabul, Kandahar and Herat. Imagine Afghanistan winning a World T20 Tournament game and a match-presentation ceremony where the new captain gives praise to the Taliban and its sports policies! (The world’s leading leg-spinner Rashid has just dropped out as skipper of the Afghanistan team in protest against unwarranted interference by the new cricket dispensation in Kabul.)

Granted, if the ICC acts now and drops Afghanistan from the tournament, that could complicate things since the schedule has already been drawn up. What could arise are issues like what points should be awarded to a country which is scheduled to play Afghanistan in a particular match. For instance, Pakistan plays Afghanistan on October 30 in the Men’s World T20 Tournament. India plays Afghanistan on November 4. And New Zealand plays Afghanistan on November 7.

However, there is a simple solution. The top six qualifiers for the tournament are PNG, Ireland, Netherlands, Namibia, Scotland and Oman. The two teams which did not make it are the UAE and Hong Kong. If the UAE has done better than Hong Kong in the preliminary tournament, then it should play instead of Afghanistan in next month’s Men’s World T20 Tournament. That would also give a much-needed local flavour to the event which is being staged by the BCCI in Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Dubai in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in India due to which the IPL was suspended half-way in May. (The second half of the IPL will now resume from September 19 in Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Dubai.)

Granted, neither the UAE nor Hong Kong is anywhere as good as Afghanistan. However, allowing Afghanistan to play in an ICC World Cup event is tantamount to endorsing the Taliban’s barbaric attitude to women.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE