Sustainability has been buzzword in creating efficient workspaces till the pandemic caught us unaware. Now, as we are contemplating commuting to office or, work in a hybrid mode where our homes double up to function as office, the next Gen workspaces need to have more attributes namely resiliency wellness and equity.

Technology has proven to be a life saver during the pandemic. Need for touchless or remote operations with seamless connectivity, enabling future ready operations ensuring health and productivity, bridging gender gap are new norms in addition to being mindful of efficiency of operations. We are aware of the technological interventions in terms of IoT-connected smart technologies in a building – from Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) to Smart Plugs, to Security Systems – can be controlled by cutting-edge digital solutions and software and powered by green electricity. This is when buildings will be able to attain superior levels of energy efficiency, creating truly digital, productive and connected workspaces.

Organisations have been motivated to re think work culture and work patterns ,keeping in mind occupant safety as well as need for cutting costs of operations. There has been a realization that there are primarily two types of work 1) heads down work such as filling forms, making applications etc that neither needs commuting nor collaboration . 2)Heads up work that requires collaboration, as it’s well recognized that collaborative minds bring out innovation at work. Hence the new redefined workplace can optimize work spaces to offer a combination of collaborative spaces, individual workstations as well as provision to work from home. Technology remains the back bone of such solutions in addition to robust design of flexible work culture.

It’s also well recognized that mental health is as important as physical health and social contact with colleagues and people is crucial to keep employee’s morale high. Hence hybrid workplaces that are AI enabled would be the new norm to facilitate collaboration yet ensuring necessary social distancing.

Its now largely recognized that next gen workforce would demand different kind of workspaces and would lookout for workplaces that provide good work life balance. It’s also proven that healthy people are more productive. Future workspaces should have the humane concept embedded and provide seamless operations to ease human work and efforts. Technology is a great enabler is easing our work.

Empathy and technology go had in hand. A good human resource policy that offers employee benefits to enhance work life balance such as paid leaves to take care of elderly, incentives for physical fitness activities, mental health recognition, creches for young children etc is much needed in today’s context. Attention is to be given to overall wellness of people. Safety of vulnerable, healthy nutrition and hydration, active work stations, better environmental quality, adequate sleep and rest, attention to ergonomics, all contribute to employee health and well being. Organisations are also setting aside budgets for indoor environmental quality enhancements , as its proven to increase 6 to 10% of productivity of workforce.

Thus, there is need for an integrated approach to workplace management and the need for re defined organizational KPIs that have direct impact on health and well being of occupants. The future workplace shall be adaptive in nature offer collaboration yet with social distancing, be technology savvy and efficient. This can be made possible through use of technology and artificial intelligence. The solutions now shall adapt to new normal and be mindful of the needs of the future in a post pandemic world.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE