Towards the end of his life in the summer of 2015 when the 46-year-old Beau Biden knew the brain tumour he thought he had survived had returned in full malignancy, he looked his father Joe Biden in the eye and said, “Promise me dad that you will be okay”. Being okay meant not just carrying on from one heartbroken day to another as a traumatized parent who had already lost his wife and baby daughter in a car accident decades ago and who made it a point as the then youngest US Senator in the summer of 1973 to take the last Amtrak train from Washington DC to Wilmington in Delaware every evening so as to put two small boys (the four-year-old Beau and the three-year-old Hunter) to bed since he was the only parent they had. Being okay in the summer of 2015 meant that Joe Biden would not give up on his dream of becoming the president of the USA and of making a difference to the lives of working-class people and ordinary Americans. And for Beau Biden who had fought in America’s Iraq war at a time when the US was already involved in Afghanistan, being okay meant honouring commitments made to hundreds of Iraqis and Afghans who had bought into the dream of democracy and who had, at the risk of their own lives, saved young American soldiers fighting a war thousands of miles away before they could return home to what the singer John Denver lyrically described as “Almost heaven, West Virginia/Blue Ridge Mountains, Shenandoah River/Life is old there, older than the trees/Younger than the mountains, growing’ like a breeze//Country roads, take me home/To the place I belong.”

The last meeting between Beau Biden and his father is not a figment of any pulp writer’s imagination but something which Joe Biden narrated time and time again on the presidential campaign trail during the summer of 2020. It was almost as if Joe Biden was trying to say “No, I am not a tired old man burnt out by years of grief. I am someone who believes in the American dream. I am someone who honours the commitments America and Americans make.”.

The commitments made on the battlefield are especially sacred. Each time an American soldier is killed in war, his coffin is wrapped in the American flag. And just before the coffin is interred into the burial ground, the flag is removed, folded and handed over to the grieving mother/wife/daughter/father/son. The handing over of the flag implies that the commitment will be honoured till eternity and beyond the sounding of the Last Post.

That kind of commitment is not confined to any one army of any one nation. One can almost hear Captain Vikram Batra (PVC) saying, “Tiranga lehrakar aaunga, nahin to usme lipta hua aaunga, lekin aaunga zaroor.” “I will return either waving the (Indian) tricolor or wrapped in it. I will return.”

For Beau Biden and thousands of American soldiers who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan, the commitment was to the hundreds of Iraqis and Afghans who had at the risk of their lives saved the GIs who did not have the local knowledge or awareness to escape IEDs (improvised explosive devices which tore bodies apart), ambushes and worse in what was perceived by their commanders-in-chief in Washington DC to be a war to bring democracy to tribal lands.

Which is why today countless letters are being written by veterans of the war in Afghanistan, urging their elected representatives in Washington DC not to allow the Afghans who saved their lives in the war to be now slaughtered by the victorious Taliban. Many of the Afghans who guided young American soldiers through the conflict in a distant country were granted Special Immigrant Visas (SIVs) to ensure that they would not be left behind to be slaughtered in case the Taliban took over Afghanistan again.

It is now clear that those SIVs are not worth the piece of paper they are stamped on. President Biden has now accepted the Taliban demand that US troops exit Afghanistan (and Kabul airport) by August 31, 2021. And all routes to the Kabul airport are now controlled by the Taliban which has explicitly stated that only American citizens will be allowed to leave but not Afghans.

Yes, President Biden was right when he said American soldiers cannot keep fighting a war which the Afghans are not prepared to fight, as evinced by the complete collapse of the army led by President Ashraf Ghani who was the first to capitulate by taking the quickest flight out of Kabul to the UAE.

But, yes, President Biden has dishonoured the commitment made to thousands of Afghans who were granted Special Immigrant Visas to protect them from just such an eventuality of a Taliban takeover. It is easier to play Rambo on the silver screen than in real life. But, surely, the most powerful man on the planet, the President of the USA, could have organized a phased exit from Afghanistan to ensure the evacuation of not just Americans but Afghans holding SIVs. One wonders what the recent secret meeting between the Taliban leader Mullah Baradar and the CIA chief William Burns was about. Was it just a CIA bid to extract an assurance that all American citizens would be allowed to leave and that Afghanistan would never again be used as a base for terrorist operations targeting the USA, a la 9/11. “What is important is how we leave,” Biden had stated in the vice-presidential debate against Sarah Palin in the summer of 2008 when Major Beau Biden was serving in Iraq. Which is surely not what we are seeing today, with Afghan youths falling to their deaths while clinging on to the outside of departing planes!

The only silver lining if at all is the ongoing and unstinting 24 by 7 effort by former and present American women judges to ensure that their counterparts in Afghanistan can leave. According to an NBC report, dated August 24, 2021, a retired Vermont family court judge Patricia Walsh (who had served as an international judge in the war-crimes chamber of Bosnia-Herzegovina) is part of a small group of judges spread over the world and working round the clock to evacuate some 250 women judges from Afghanistan. After almost two decades of trying to set up an independent judiciary and eradicate corruption, many of these female Afghan judges are now receiving death threats from the Taliban or from men they have convicted for crimes like domestic violence, thousands of whom have been released following the Taliban takeover.

According to the NBC report, the efforts by the likes of Whalen and Lisa Walsh (North American regional director of the International Association of Women Judges) is meticulously hands-on, to the extent of communicating inputs on when it is less unsafe to travel to the Kabul airport and which gate to go to while carrying enough food and water for a 24-hour wait. US Senators have urged the Biden Administration to create a humanitarian parole category specifically for Afghan female leaders and human rights activists so as to facilitate speedy relocation to the USA. Two women Afghan judges have already been ambushed and killed.

Women judges are not wanted in a country where, as per the Talibans’s bizarre interpretation of the Sharia, a rape-victim can be accused of adultery and stoned to death. If that is just American propaganda, then surely we would not see the stampede at Kabul Airport or the heartbreaking sight of a young mother handing over her baby daughter to a female stranger (the Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed) who has managed to get a seat on a flight out of the country.

Insofar as the USA is concerned, it is time to fulfill the promise of the Statue of Liberty (formally titled “Liberty Enlightening the World”), depicting a crowned Liberty, personified as a woman, lifting up a torch with her right hand while her left hand holds a tablet stating “July IV, MDCCLXXVI”, the Roman numerals of the date (July 4, 1776) on which the American Declaration of Independence was adopted.

Surely, it is time for Americans to elect their first woman president who will be less grandiose and more grounded than the men but who will honour national commitments.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE