When we learnt that my father had been named as the new ambassador to Romania, my first thought was not ‘Land of Dracula’ but ‘Land of Nadia Comaneci’. After all, the tiny powerhouse had wowed the Montreal Olympics just two years prior by scoring the first (of seven) perfect 10s on her way to three gold medals in gymnastics, aged just 14. I could turn a few (laboured) cartwheels myself and felt ridiculously excited about the ‘connection’.

We never did get to meet Nadia in our three years there—during which she won more golds at the Moscow Olympics—but it was clear that a whole nation hung on her every move. It was like she was their only light in a gloomy world of isolation and socialist deprivation as she was one of the few Romanians allowed to travel the world back in the day. The only other Romanian sportsperson with a similar following was the mercurial tennis player Ilie Nastase.

But before her Moscow encore, Nadia inexplicably went AWOL. Even though there was no social media to amplify individual voices, it was clear that a whole nation was on tenterhooks about her. Reports emerged much later—which she initially denied—that she had tried to kill herself by swallowing bleach in 1977. But there was undeniable evidence that she was troubled, as she had gained a huge amount of weight, purportedly binging on chocolates.

At that time, the Communist regime’s sports bosses found her and returned Nadia to her former coach—who had been pushed aside in favour of state-sponsored ones—and got her back in shape for the Moscow Olympics in 1980. She had to put her evident depression aside and focus on bringing glory to her country. And she ended up striking gold again there for two routines—beam and floor—and also bagged two silvers. All this when she was still a teen.

Mental health was not mentioned in sports circles back then, and kids barely into double digits regularly competed in high pressure events, where injuries were a constant possibility. In fact the Communist countries of eastern Europe seemed to have an endless supply of tiny (practically) tots doing near-impossible manoeuvres in gymnastics with almost robotic precision, ending their routines with cute grins that belied their heaving, bony diaphragms.

Their biggest advantage—if it can be called one—back then was their relative isolation as the gymnasts spent their waking hours training in special schools and hardly ever ventured into the outside world. While it made them into performing ponies in a way, it also insulated them from the glare of public interest and, worse still, expectation. Their training schedules were inhuman, and the kids had to often put up with actual cruelty and abuse from their coaches.

But there was no question of the children pulling out. And certainly not during the actual event, as happened this week with the veteran US gymnast Simone Biles, who at 24 is no stranger to the pressures of top competitions. What stands out in Biles’ action is not merely her encoring the issue after the 23-year-old US tennis prodigy Naomi Osaka pulled out of the French Open in May but the fact that these two girls reached the end of their tether so publicly.

Public opinion is often neither informed nor fair, patient or understanding. And thanks to social media, cutting comments which sportspeople would never hear are now there for all to see, “like”, and add their own “expert” opinion. Social media quite clearly does not believe in the adage, “It’s not about winning or losing but about how you play the game.” So the dark side of top level sport today is not about the cruelty of coaches but that of the relentless public.

Mental strength needed to win in a sport now has to be boosted to take on public opinion and sponsors’ demands too. Neither Biles’ nor Osaka’s family, coaches and doctors seemed to realise they were strung out and struggling till their public meltdowns. Were their retinues so focused on victory—and retaining public adulation—that they did not see the fragile human beings behind the two sports prodigies? That does not sound very sporting at all.

Nadia defected to the US in 1989 and is now married to a fellow gymnast Bart Connor. She first met him at that landmark Montreal Olympics but she has no recollection of it; imagine the tumult in that 14 year old’s mind. The pressure to win is a thousand times more now, with billions of us focused on stars at the Tokyo Olympics. From our armchairs, we—especially on social media—must be more mindful of the humans behind the phenomena.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.