Alexander and Ashoka had more things in common than the first letter of their names. They were ambitious, ruthless, driven, cruel, murderous, egotistical, cunning and manipulative. They were also bestowed the title ‘the Great’ post-facto by historians and continue to be revered by generations of readers of school history textbooks. Historians have been clearly miserly with their bestowal of the ‘great’ title for reasons that appear to neither fair nor logical.

Consider India’s very long history. How many rulers have been given this rare ‘award’ by historians? Court chroniclers obviously do not count. Besides Ashoka the Great, we have, well, Akbar the Great; Kanishka is subjective. Apart from them, nary a ruler in the over two millennia have achieved that distinction. Not Chandragupta-Maurya or Vikramaditya-or Harshavardhana or even his bete noire Pulakeshin I, or Rajaraja or Rajendra Chola…

The West has been significantly luckier in ‘the Great’ stakes. From Alfred the Great to Stefan cel Mare (of Romania), Constantine the Great of Byzantium to Canute the Great of England and Denmark, Peter the Great and Frederick the Great of Russia, even France’s Louis XIV and more. However, Persia, with its prodigious recorded history has been magnanimously honoured with three-Cyrus, Darius and Xerxes; and Egypt one-Ramses II.

As for women rulers, historians-overwhelmingly male till recently-have been even more stingy. The only name that usually pops up is Russia’s Catherine the Great, maybe because she displayed all the characteristics attributed above to Alexander and Ashoka. Tamar the Great of Georgia, who ruled from 1184 to 1213 is a less known second name. But Britain’s Elizabeth I, despite her long and successful reign was denied a ‘great’ suffix.

Egypt’s feisty queen Hatshepsut, who ruled in her own right, not just as a regent or as a daughter or wife, also did not make the cut. But perhaps because of her serendipitous association with Caesar and Antony, historians acknowledged that Cleopatra VII-who ruled Egypt some 1400 years after Hatshepsut-used the title ‘the great one’. But that still fell short of any historians giving her a ‘great’ prefix. And India’s women rulers have fared even worse.

Not a single Indian woman ruler, no matter how long she ruled-on her own or as a regent-won battles, expanded her domain, set up a good administration, commissioned great architecture or became a generous patron of arts, has been called ‘the great’. In fact, so few women rulers have been highlighted at all by historians on India (including non-Indians) that most Indians can be forgiven for thinking none deserved such recognition anyway.

Yet nothing could be further from the truth. Apart from misogyny on the part of the so-called ‘progressive historians’ of 20th century and their possible agenda of portraying the ancient past as inherently regressive, there is no plausible explanation of the exclusion or the diminution of many significant women monarchs in India. Yet they hailed from all parts of India and ruled right from the classical age up to the late medieval era.

For instance, Prabhavati, the daughter of the Gupta emperor Chandragupta Vikramaditya, who married into and then ruled the neighbouring Vakataka kingdom for decades. And the 13th century Kakatiya ruler Rudrama Devi, who was raised by her father to be a warrior and ruled with him and then succeeded him. And, of course, Goa’s Naika Devi, the regent of Gujarat’s Anhilwara Patan who defeated and repelled Mohammed Ghori, no less.

The side-lining or downplaying of many Indian rulers (particularly women) and events to burnish the haloes of the ‘greats’ is being sought to be remedied now by changes in the new UGC history syllabus for college. Hence the inclusion, say, of Kharavela, the Kalinga king who conquered Magadha after Ashoka (the Great) and the feisty Rani Durgavati of Garha-Mandla and wily Chand Bibi of Ahmednagar and Bijapur who stood up to Akbar (the Great).

Even the historians who do not want to ‘dilute’ that ‘Great’ tag by distributing it to more rulers themselves, can do their duty as professionals at least, and give an honest account of the achievements of many, many more monarchs and dynasties than they have so far. Or let other ‘differing’ historians have their say now. Then the rest of us Indians can decide for ourselves who among those in that expanded list deserve the title ‘The Great’. And, of course, who do not.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE