Just seven months before the London Olympics of August 1948, 19-year-old Henry Rebello of India had touched a distance of 50 feet 2 inches, the best effort for that year by any triple-jumper in the world, according to indianathletics.in (Athletics Federation of India).

Expert sports commentators like Harold Abrahams (whose achievement in winning the 1924 Paris Olympics 100-metres gold inspired the 1982 Oscar award-winning movie “Chariots of Fire”) and the triple-jumper Jack Metcalfe (bronze medallist at the 1936 Berlin Games) had opined that Rebello would be unbeatable in the triple-jump event at the 1948 London Olympics. Sadly that was not to be.

There was an interruption on that morning of August 3 just when Rebello was about to start his first attempt in the hop, step and jump event of the 1948 London Olympics. The organisers asked Rebello to wait until a presentation ceremony for an earlier event was concluded. After the interruption, the 19-year-old Rebello didn’t warm up on a cold London morning and pulled a hamstring when he went all out on his first attempt.

Some 36 years later, in my capacity as a Delhi-based journalist, I had gone to interview Rebello at his residence. The TV was on and Rebello was watching Carl Lewis win the first of his four 1984 LA Olympic gold medals even while narrating the sequence of events which saw him miss a medal on August 3, 1948.

The movie “Chariots of Fire” shows the young Abrahams (enacted by Ben Cross) running on the beach to the inspiring background theme-music of Vangelis. Rebello was essentially self-trained and would rely on American sports magazines to practise. As a Bangalore schoolboy at Baldwin’s, Rebello used to strengthen his leg muscles by running up and down a staircase, sometimes backwards . He would do so even in other public spaces. And so what if the girls said, “Look at that crazy boy!” On the road, he would suddenly try to overtake speeding vehicles.

Rebello never participated in the Olympics again after the 1948 Games. Those were the days when sports was an amateur affair and Rebello had to focus on his studies and his career as an officer in the Indian Air Force, retiring as Group Captain. He was actively involved in the running of the 1982 New Delhi Asian Games and served as a director with the Sports Authority of India from 1984 to 1988. He passed away after a long illness at his Gurgaon residence on August 27, 2013, at the age of 84.

The dream of an individual medal in an Olympic track-and-field event still eludes athletes in post-Independent India. A few years before his demise on the night of June 18, 2021, Milkha Singh had stated that the last wish he had was to see an Indian athlete win a medal in an Olympic track-and-field event

Which seems even more unlikely now, given the fact that sports has become an intensely professional pursuit and that India lags behind those nations which dominate the track-and-field events.. An attempt was made to bridge the gap when Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore was sworn in as the minister of state (MoS) for youth affairs and sports on September 3, 2017, three years and 10 months ahead of the 2021 Tokyo Olympics, commencing on Friday, July 23

Rathore’s appointment was the first time an Olympic medallist (silver in the men’s double-trap shooting event at the 2004 Athens Games) had been appointed as India’s MoS for sports. Before Rathore, the post had been held by career politicians like Vijay Goel who accompanied the team to the 2016 Rio Olympics and reportedly took selfies of himself in areas reserved for the athletes.

However, after the Lok Sabha elections of May 2019, Rathore was dropped from the ministry and we are back to square one. The present incumbent is the MP from the Hamirpur constituency in Himachal Pradesh, Anurag Thakur, the son of the former CM of the state. Thakur had to step down as president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India at the instance of the Supreme Court which had held on January 3, 2017, that he had, by his actions and conduct in “obstructing” the implementation of the Justice Lodha Committee’s reforms, rendered himself “unfit” for continuance. Quite a few national sports federations (NSFs) in India are being run by those with political clout and little or no sporting ability.

And so what if, during the campaign for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Prime Minister Modi had repeatedly maintained that, unlike the Congress which was for the naamdar (VIP sons and daughters of VIP politicians), his government was for the kaamdaar (those who had come up the hard way by striving for excellence).

Who could be more kaamdaar than Rathore who, apart from being the first Indian since Independence to win an Olympic silver medal in an individual event at the 2004 Athens Games, had been awarded the Sword of Honour for the best all-round Gentleman Officer Cadet at the Indian Military Academy in 1990, had served in the Indian Army for 23 years, fighting in the Kargil War and conducting anti-terrorist operations in Jammu & Kashmir before retiring as a colonel and entering politics by joining the BJP in September 2013, eight months before he was elected as a first-time MP from from the Jaipur Rural constituency in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls?

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE