There is this poem by Lawrence Binyon titled “For the Fallen” and commemorating those killed in war, the fourth stanza of which goes:

They shall not grow old, as we that are left grow old:

Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn.

At the going down of the sun and in the morning

We will remember them.

Danish Siddiqui, Najmul Hasan and Priya Ramrakha were Indian journalists who died young, covering war. Siddiqui and Hasan were Indian citizens who worked from India for the wire-service Reuters and their last mission was to cover a war in a third country. I met one of them (Hasan) briefly. The other two were before and after my days of active journalism. Hasan was a correspondent while the other two were photojournalists.

The 33-year-old Ramrakha was a Kenyan of Indian origin and was covering a war in Africa for the international newsmagazines Time/Life when he was killed in 1968 in crossfire between Nigerian soldiers and Biafran rebels. A CBS film crew captured Ramrakha’s final moments. Ramrakha was shot, his camera fell to the ground and he died while CBS correspondent Morley Safer tried to carry him to safety. Many of Ramrakha’s finest photographs, believed to have been lost for 40 years, were found buried in a Nairobi garage in the year 2018. They have since been published in a hardcover book titled, “Priya Ramrakha: The Recovered Archive”.

As the Priya Ramrakha Foundation puts it, “This work is a unique collection of street photography and journalistic work across Africa and the US in the 1950s and 1960s. Hailing from an activist family of journalists, he chronicled through his body of work the anti-colonial and post-colonial struggles across Africa. One of the first African journalists to be employed by Time/Life, his iconic images defied stereotype, censorship and editorial demand, and captured key moments ranging from the Mau Mau in the early 1950s to Africa’s independence movements through the 1960s. Ramrakha’s pan-African lens witnessed moments of political resistance by everyday people and major political figures in Africa and the civil-rights movement in the United States, from Jomo Kenyatta and Tom Mboya to Kennedy, Miriam Makeba, Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. His work was cut short when (at the age of 33) he was killed in crossfire covering Biafra’s frontlines in 1968.”

The 37-year-old Najmul Hasan was killed during the Iran-Iraq war on August 11, 1983. According to The Baron (which describes itself as the essential source of information for Reuters people, past and present), “On 8th August 1983, in the fourth year of the Iran-Iraq war, Najmul Hasan arrived in Iran from Delhi to fill in while the Tehran correspondent was on leave. Three days later, he joined a party of journalists to tour the war front in western Iran. The reporters were briefed by Iranian officials, then set up a rocky gully. A landmine exploded, killing Hasan and an Iranian government official. Several other journalists were injured. Hasan’s body was flown home to India and he was buried in a Shia ceremony on a tree-shaded hillock in a cemetery close to the flat in Delhi’s press-enclave where he had lived. He left a widow, Barbara, and two children.”

At the unveiling of a memorial plaque in London in 1984, Reuters managing editor Glen Renfrew said, “Competing correspondents in India agreed in their assessment of Najmul Hasan, a truly professional journalist who had no need for tricks or smart writing.” A Reuters fellowship at Oxford University was established in memory of Hasan, the sixth such fellowship set up by Reuters to help further journalism in developing countries. During his 67-month tenure with Reuters, Hasan had covered the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, presidential elections in Sri Lanka, and political upheavals in Nepal, Bangladesh and India’s north-eastern state of Assam– his reports on etbic unrest in Assam were, says Reuters, front-paged around the world. After his death, his wife Barbara was employed by Reuters as a bureau librarian. “I was a housewife, completely unqualified, but I stayed on for 16 years,” she said.

The most recent death of an Indian journalist in a war zone was that of the 38-year-old Reuters photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui who was killed on Friday, July 16, 2021, while covering a clash between the Taliban fighters and the Afghan special forces who were trying to retake the main market area of Spin Boldak on the Afghan side of the border with Pakistan. Siddiqui had been injured by shrapnel earlier in the day on July 16. He was treated and was talking with some shopkeepers when the Taliban attacked again and he was killed, along with a senior Afghan officer. Siddiqui was embedded with the Afghan special forces. His body was handed over to the Afghan Red Crescent Society by the Taliban who stated that they were not aware of the circumstances in which Siddiqui was killed and that it was a matter of regret that journalists were entering the war zone without intimating them. “Any journalist entering the war zone should inform us. We will take proper care of that particular individual,” the Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Ahmed said. Siddiqui is survived by his wife Rike (a German national) and two children.

Siddiqui was part of the Reuters team which had won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography for documenting the Rohingya refugee crisis. During his 11-year stint with Reuters, Siddiqui had covered the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee-crisis, the Nepal earthquake, the Easter Sunday (2019) blasts in which 250 people were killed in Colombo, the Hong Kong protests, and, more recently, the mass-cremations of the second corona wave in Delhi and other parts of the country.

“I shoot for the common man who wants to see and feel a story from a place where he can’t be present himself,” Siddiqui said, something borne out by his award-winning (September 11, 2017) photograph of an exhausted Rohingya woman kneeling and touching the shore in Shah Porir-Dwip after crossing the Bangladesh-Myanmar border by boat through the Bay of Bengal. In the foreground of the Reuters photograph is the kneeling woman while the backdrop is provided by the blue sky and the deep sea.

In an eloquent statement condoling the death of Danish Siddiqui, the Editors Guild of India noted that his work was a living testament to the axiom of photojournalism that “If your pictures aren’t good enough, you aren’t close enough” while describing his death “as a stern reminder of the great risks journalists take to report from the frontline of conflict.”

It would, however, be simplistic to record Ramrakha, Hasan and Siddiqui as three journalists who went out of their way to be killed. All we have to do is remember Marie Colvin, the fiercely independent journalist who was killed along with the photographer Remi Ochlik by Syrian army artillery fire on a media centre at Homs on the evening of February 22, 2012, shortly after she appeared live on the BBC, Channel 4, CNN and ITN News via satellite-phone and described the “merciless” shelling and sniper-attacks on civilian buildings and people on the streets of Homs by government forces. On April 26, 2001, she had lost vision in her left eye due to the blast of a Sri Lankan army rocket-propelled grenade while she was reporting on the humanitarian disaster caused by a government blocake of food and medical supplies to the northern Tamil region. In the last days of the war in the summer of 2009, she was back again in Sri Lanka, reporting on the war crimes committed on Tamil civilians.

In 1999 in East Timor, Colvin was credited with saving the lives of 1,500 women and children from a compound besieged by Indonesian-backed forces. Refusing to abandon the women and children, she constantly reported on their plight on television until they were all evacuated four days later. “You’re never going to get to where you’re going if you acknowledge fear,” she told an interviewer. That quote was repeated at the end of the movie “A Private War” which was based on her life and released in the year 2018.

Colvin had always stressed the importance of the media “shining a light on humanity in extremes, pushed to the unendurable”. As she put it, “My job is to bear witness.”

Which is what Ramrakha, Hasan and Siddiqui were doing throughout their career and until the moment they were killed.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.