It has been eight years since West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee made the momentous decision to move out of the sprawling colonial palace called Writers Building to the modest, even plebeian, concrete tower she christened Nabanna. It was meant to be a temporary move till the crumbling, 250-year-old, red-andwhite government headquarters was repaired, refurbished and retrofitted for 21st century Bengal, at a reported cost of Rs 200 crore.

She has clearly changed her mind about returning any time soon to the building that dominates ‘Benoy-Badal-Dinesh (BBD) Bagh’, earlier known as Dalhousie Square, a place redolent of the power and pelf of the British Raj and its successors. Nabanna—slated to be a garment business park across the Hooghly River—has no such airs. In hindsight, it was probably the most audacious shift away from the past by any political leader of modern India.

Her thinking, curiously enough, was probably not unlike that of her bete noire, Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has also decided to move all central government ministries to more functional new buildings on the Central Vista. The monumental Herbert Baker-designed sandstone North and South Blocks on Raisina Hill are perhaps rivalled only by Writers Building in size and dominance. Perhaps the PM even got the idea from the West Bengal CM.

It is widely agreed that sitting in buildings from which the British once ruled an imperial swathe now split into several independent countries has a strange effect on Indian incumbents, both political and bureaucratic, even today. Indeed, Ms Banerjee could probably provide the PM with some vital insights into whether her decision to exit Writers Building has actually made a genuine difference to mindsets and efficiency of the West Bengal government.

The fact that she has won two more elections since then will only make her more reluctant to shift back—to the past, as it were. The news blackout on how far the renovation work has progressed, even by the laidback standards of the state, indicates the state government is in no hurry. So, it may be time to suggest that the CM should think of a new role for Writers Building: as the crowning glory of a heritage zone encompassing BBD Bagh and allied areas.

Writers Building, at the height of its evolution and expansion since the initial space was constructed in 1777, reportedly comprised some 5 lakh sq. ft. The restoration work supposedly includes demolishing some of the unseemly modern additions inside the complex, but even so the remaining space is enormous. It would be a perfect setting for a magnificent, interactive Museum of Bengal, encompassing 20,000 years of the region’s varied history.

From ancient stone tools excavated at Sagardighi to the exciting finds at Chandraketugarh, not to mention succeeding ruling local dynasties right up to the Bengal Sultanate, the Mughal annexation, the East India Company era and British Raj, two Partitions and, of course, the tumultuous post-Independence decades. There would be enough space not only for imaginative displays but places for cultural events, like the great museums around the world.

But merely making a single building a museum is not enough, even if it is as imposing as Writers. The World Monuments Fund has noted that BBD Bagh and its Lal Dighi waterbody sits at the centre of an area full of historic architecture including Calcutta’s first parish church St John’s (whose steeple is modelled on St. Martin’s-in-theFields in London’s Trafalgar Square) and grand buildings that once housed international banks and large businesses.

Ever since the capital of the British Empire shifted to Delhi, those buildings have been going to seed—for over a century now. Turning the area into a protected heritage hub for cultural and upscale commercial activity could be just the ticket to revitalise and preserve the buildings. Interestingly, the Dalhousie Square area was included in the World Monuments Watch in 2004 and 2006 to raise awareness and encourage funding for their conservation.

Asurvey some years ago identified 50 architecturally and historically significant buildings there, some of which, like the Currency Building, have since been restored (by the Centre) and reopened as museums. The municipality had also made its own list of 55 landmarks in the purported ‘Dalhousie Square Heritage Zone’ and St John’s Church even got some much-needed repairs. But it is evident that many other gracious buildings are going downhill.

Unlike colonial enclaves elsewhere in south Asia, much of Dalhousie Square area’s architectural ‘atmosphere’ is intact. With Writers Buildings setting the tone as a Museum of Bengal, if Ms Banerjee can catalyse such a transformation, that part of Calcutta (complete with an eco-friendly tram network) could become a unique cultural and tourist magnet. She could even end up inspiring the PM to do the same in New Delhi’s Lutyens Heritage Zone.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE