Recently a friend wrote about how he was distinctly underwhelmed by the world’s most famous painting, the Mona Lisa. He could not understand why millions reverentially flock to see the comparatively small canvas painted by Leonardo Da Vinci at the Louvre. A lot of other Indian visitors may be similarly unimpressed but nevertheless pay up their ₹1,350 entry free and pay obeisance to the painting just like fellow tourists from elsewhere.

The friend’s view struck me as a variant of the famous Hans Christian Andersen tale about the emperor’s new clothes. It took a child unaware of the stories spun around the fictitious, invisible royal garments created by two conmen to say, “But he is not wearing any clothes…” Till then, all the nobles and townspeople were willing to go by hype and not see for themselves and decide. My friend had looked at the Mona Lisa painting rising above the Da Vinci lore.

He, in fact, has a prodigious knowledge of the oeuvre of this Renaissance maestro and many others, so his view was a considered opinion, not just an ill-informed judgement. Most importantly, he was not shy about voicing his point of view about a painting vigorously promoted as the apogee of artistic excellence. But unlike the innocent frankness of child in the Andersen fairytale, my friend’s assessment stemmed from quite the opposite: erudition.

Tourism survives and thrives on bumph — reams written in praise of star attractions. Most of the Louvre’s 9 million annual visitors (65% of them tourists) probably throng there to see the painting said to be so dear to Da Vinci that he never handed it to the family that commissioned it, and even Napoleon kept it in his bedroom. Everyone wants to see what is so fascinating about that eyebrowless Florentine lady who is reportedly insured for $1 billion.

The preponderance of Europe and Europeans in the recent writing of history — and bumph — at just about the time that travel became a widespread phenomenon rather than just the preserve of moneyed classes, ambitious adventurers and itinerant monks seeking knowledge, cannot be underestimated in this context. They have told and sold stories according to their own perspective, which in turn have served to enthuse tourists for at least the last 100 years.

They told us, for instance, that the Taj Mahal is the single most amazing building in the entire Indian subcontinent, despite a wealth of exquisite art and architecture spanning at least 3,000 years. To their eyes, the pristine white marble façade with its elegant but spare pietra dura work and geometric stone fretwork appeared to be the absolute height of eastern artistic beauty. Indians as well as and tourists visiting India have mostly hewed to that assessment to this day.

Before the Incredible India campaign launched by the Vajpayee government in 2002 brought to the fore so many other amazing facets about the country, most Indians were also unaware, as indeed were foreigners, about the sheer diversity and splendour of India’s artistic and architectural repertoire. Nearly two decades have passed since that seminal move to broaden the ambit of India’s attractions but even today the message still has to be driven home.

Thanks to social media, more aspects of India’s magnificence are now being highlighted. And it is easy to see why the genteel lines of our Persianate legacy appealed to western raconteurs more than the voluptuous and flamboyant examples of India’s non-Islamic heritage. Our colourful, richly carved temple architecture, for instance, may have posed an unwelcome counterpoint to their equally extravagant Renaissance masterpieces.

The World Heritage status bestowed by Unesco to many Indian architectural and artistic wonders has helped to increase general awareness. Apart from more such Indian marvels being highlighted, a lot more stories need to be told about each of them to enhance and broaden their appeal; after all, Da Vinci and Napoleon’s apparent love for Mona Lisa boosts her unending lure even today, despite the occasional, frank assessment by my erudite friend.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.