Image: ShutterstockProbably yes.Quite a few or Quite many.And when I say Crush, I mean all kinds of Crushes. In whatever shape, sizes, and ways it exists on this planet. It turns out that nowadays people have more crushes on celebrities and fictional characters than on their peers and people around them. And I am one of them tbh. I mean it is just more convenient, if you will. And let's not forget how perfect these characters are! And so real.Which makes them so attractive. Maybe that is the perk of 'Fictional crushes'; we have the whole context of the person (character) which makes it much better than Celebrities crushes. And also because we don't get to know someone so deeply very often.Being born in the millennial and internet era we have so much content basically on the tips of our fingers. And thanks to the integration of the economies we have content from all over the world; I mean what actually is "Foreign"?It gives you no less of hopes and fantasies....believe meHere are some of the most common ones- Klaus Mikaelson (Originals, TVD)All I have to say here is, ' Hello love'!- Damon Salvatore (The Vampire Diaries)The one who was misunderstood as someone who lacks love in him turned out to be the one who had the highest capacity to love.- Harvey Specter (Suits)What is attractive? When intelligence meets confidence.- Agent Mike Mcquig (Quantico)A coconut. Tough from outside, soft from inside- Jake Taylor (Work It)The adorable-perfect-boyfriend type.- Major Vihan Shergill (URI)Who knew diligence can be this charismatic.- Kabir Thappar ( Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani)Ahhh! *Loss of words*And I have lost track of the previous ones! In my opinion fictional crushes are a lot more peaceful. Don't you think? But the downfall to it is that they are not real. Probably the only reason that makes your heart ache after falling for them. But at the times where every interaction with another human is so rehearsed and timed; it has become a lot more difficult to meet people. So, these characters come to our rescue, and we owe a big time to them!