Image: Nailbox, BengaluruNail trends this year have been anything but basic! Bright hues, abstract to geometric designs, and cheery nail art, nails became a canvas of self-expression. Last few months, we saw several different versions of coloured French manicure, tonal nails, syrup and marble nails, but these are now things of summer. As we step into autumn/ winter months with festive and wedding season approaching, nail trends have transitioned into a winter mood. Here’s how the last three months will look like for nail art lovers!Resonating the overall mood of the season, the shades are going to be warmer with deeper hues. Whether you opt for tonal nails, solid colour or French tips, warmer toner dominates the palette. “Off-whites, nudes, beiges and browns become more predominant during fall months. As the year progresses, the colours tend to get warmer and you start to approach the greys and the charcoal,” says Sneha Bhagwat, founder of Nailbox in Bengaluru.Image: Nailbox, BengaluruKeeping in mind the festive and wedding season, metallic shades are also a huge hit during these months. “A bit of metallic, whether it’s gold, rose gold or copper, always amps up the charm. French nails with metallic tips are also a huge hit during these months,” adds Bhgawat.Image: Nailbox, BengaluruGlitter and shimmer are also a huge hot during winters as they look rich in deeper shades that go extremely well with the party and wedding season. Do not shy to go all out with glitter and stones to add on to the current mood. “Shimmers and cat-eye magnetic polishes are on the rise! A lot of Swarovski stones are seen on nails. Stones, ultra glitter, and shimmer nails take all the spotlight,” says Bhagwat. She also suggests that nude colours with just one single Swarovski on one finger are also much loved.If you are a minimalist, French tips are going to be in trend even now. “For the minimalist, French nails with shimmer/metallic tips are the way to go,” suggests Bhagwat. For the minimalist, French tips are the way to go -- white or coloured is your choice.