Sexual health and wellness is one of those aspects of one’s lifestyle that is often brushed under the carpet as a complementary element to overall well-being. However, as the taboo around the subject begins to dissipate ever so slightly, people are realising that sexual wellness and a healthy sex life is a fundamental part of overall well-being. A person can have everything going for them, in terms of health, fitness, career as well as a robust social life, however, if their sexual life is impacted negatively, the consequences are far-reaching. An unsatisfactory or unhealthy sexual life severely impacts overall stress parameters of a person's life, affects their mental wellbeing as well as leads to a lack of focus and attention.

While being secretive around the subject is an inherent part of our culture, it is imperative to educate oneself about what a healthy sex life looks and feels like, red flags to watch out for as well as ways to address sexual-related problems in real time, to avoid a long-term snowball effect. So where do we start?

Know When To Seek Help

To begin with, all sexual wellness concerns must be directed to a doctor or expert who can guide and counsel you with the best way forward. While there may be an air of awkwardness in the beginning, conversation around sexual wellness flows just as naturally as any other physical check-up- addressing the symptoms, examining the problem and deciding the next course of action. Further, there are a range of natural supplements and nutraceuticals available in the market today that combat most sexual problems.

Know That You’re Not Alone

Social media, too, has been a boon in facilitating the important conversation around sexual wellness today. Portals like Quora, Instagram, Twitter, Clubhouse, and many more have provided listening ears to all the problems and concerns that were traditionally disregarded or brushed under the carpet. This openness not only leads to a more informed and educated population, but helps eradicate a sense of loneliness knowing that one is not alone. Finally, with mainstream movies and OTT content creating a more holistic conversation around sexual wellness, shows like Wanderlust, Sex Education and Made in Heaven successfully explain why not to ignore your body's demands and send a clear message that sex is not all bed of roses for everyone. People face problems in this area just like any other aspect of life.

When it comes to nutraceuticals and supplements, it is important to understand the science behind the recommendations and nurture your body to have healthy and fulfilling sexual encounters. While there is no one-size-fits-all formula to sexual wellness, studies have shown that certain ingredients, formulations and habits foster a healthy sex life.

Maintain A Healthy Diet

Maintaining a healthy diet is an essential piece of the puzzle when it comes to sexual as well as overall wellbeing. A balanced diet entails consuming a diverse variety of foods that contain beneficial nutrients- spanning vitamins, minerals as well as phytochemicals. It is key to keeping your body and sexual system healthy. This can affect everything from arousal to overall function and even one’s ability to orgasm.

Don’t Forget To Exercise

While the most basic link to between exercise and sex is ‘stamina’, there are a plethora of other benefits that directly impact your sex life. In addition to flexibility, confidence and drive, exercising frequently also enhances your sexual health from within. For starters, exercise helps control your insulin levels. Studies show that high levels of insulin can cause disbalances within your sex hormones: leptin, testosterone and cortisol. Further, exercise also directly impacts your stress levels. Short-term as well as chronic stress have the potential to dampen your sex life, through distraction, reduced intimacy, satisfaction.

Vitality Supplements

There are many natural ingredients and herbal extracts that are often used in vitality supplements which address a range of sexual problems and lead to overall sexual wellbeing for both men and women. Some of the most promising results are found from the following:

Ingredients And Benefits Of Men's Vitality Supplements:

Akarkara Root Extract: Libido-boosting action

Gokshura Seed Extract: Strengthens penile tissue and helps solve the issue of erectile dysfunction

Jaiphal Seed Extract: Increases the production of serotonin

Shatavari Rhizome Extract: Increases the amount of testosterone

Lavang Flower Bud Powder: Helps prevent premature ejaculation

Kaunch Beej Seed Extract: Improves quality and quantity of sperm

Ingredients And Benefits Of Women's Vitality Supplement:

Shatavari Rhizome Extract: Boosts female libido/enhances sexual sensation

Lodhra Bark Extract: Relaxes uterus walls, promotes uterine functions, and provides strength & vigor to the female body

Mulethi Root Extract: Rich in phytoestrogenic compounds that deal with the hormonal imbalance of women. Also, helps relieve menstrual symptoms like mood swings, depression and insomnia.

Ashoka Bark Extract: Works as uterine tonic and helps ease heavy menstrual flow

Bang Bhasma: Rejuvenates the body cells & improves the functioning of ovaries resulting in the production of more estrogen

Everyday Herbs And Condiments

While ingredients in vitality supplements are specific formulations with targeted results, there are herbs and condiments that can be incorporated into your everyday diet that have a range of sexual benefits. Saponins found in fenugreek seeds help increase the production of testosterone in men. Cardamom is known to increase energy and relieve fatigue. Fennel contains an estrogen-like substance (estirol) that increases libido and sex drive. Nutmeg is a natural aphrodisiac and ginger increases sex drive and stimulates sexual performance.

As the conversation around sexual wellbeing and health evolves slowly but surely, education around the subject remains the most important aspect. There are enough stressors in life today and your sexual health need not be one of them.

The article is authored by Sushil Khaitan, Founder & MD of Pure Nutrition.

Also Read: Growing Trends In The Hair Colour Industry And Techniques To Try