Government’s ambitious plan to leverage the National Digital Health Mission to ensure a robust vaccine delivery system raises some concerns. On first glance, it may look as if NDHM’s convenience as a central repository for citizens’ medical history makes it a ready fit for tracking vaccine delivery and patient outcomes. But there’s a catch: It’s a fledgling system launched some months ago – on August 15 – on a pilot basis in six Union territories. In contrast, the Covid vaccination effort for just the first phase could involve a whopping 30 crore across the country. NDHM wouldn’t be able to scale up this rapidly.

The massive vaccine delivery effort needed to stop Covid-19 can’t be allowed to be held back because of glitches in the supporting IT network. NDHM can, without doubt, be useful in public healthcare. It could give doctors a patient’s medical history, avoid needless repeat tests or procedures and generate digitised health data for research purposes. The Union health ministry has clarified that possessing a digital health ID, NDHM’s unique identifier, will not be mandatory to get vaccinated. Other identification cards will be accepted too.

This is of little comfort. Yoking a nascent NDHM to a critical process like vaccine delivery before it has proven its robustness is risky. Vaccinators will be fanning out across the country, even to areas with patchy internet connectivity. Binding vaccination to seamless data entry overlooks network and technical problems that would be a dime a dozen in such a complex operation. India’s poor digital infrastructure constrains technology use without provision of fallback options. Recall the exclusionary errors in Aadhaar authentication, denying statutory monthly rations to many poor citizens.

Data collection from vaccinated individuals is indeed important and must be pursued as a voluntary exercise. Ongoing upgradation of the electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network system used by the Universal Immunisation Programme to track routine immunisation, vaccine stocks and cold chain storage can serve the official data reporting needs without putting the burden on citizens. Rolling out NDHM is another reason to enact data protection laws which give citizens meaningful privacy rights and remedies. Missteps like overly stringent lockdowns that forgot migrant workers and demonetisation that wrecked SMEs reveal the pitfalls of centralisation and lack of flexibility. Vaccine delivery will be a complicated process even without yoking it to the unproven NDHM. Let’s keep the design simple, supple and flexible.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email This piece appeared as an editorial opinion in the print edition of The Times of India.