The latest 2+2 dialogue between India and the US sealed the last foundational agreement in the form of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-spatial Cooperation. This, along with other foundational agreements signed earlier like COMCASA, LEMOA and GSOMIA, effectively makes India a close strategic partner of the US even in the absence of a formal alliance. India can now technically acquire sophisticated platforms such as armed drones from the US that can shore up its defence capabilities in the face of the China-Pakistan axis. In fact, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo was forthright in stating that India and the US together are force multipliers and can provide joint deterrence against China’s aggression.

Pompeo further elaborated that the world today is witnessing a battle between freedom and authoritarianism, and that India and the US are in the democracy and freedom camp. While New Delhi and Washington have indeed put their weight behind a rules based order underpinned by international laws, sections of the Indian polity remain enamoured by China’s surveillance state and authoritarian development model predicated on ‘might is right’. Which may go some way towards explaining why India still remains hesitant about fully embracing long-term partnerships with the West, couching it in terms of a vague strategic autonomy that precludes close engagement.

However, sitting on the fence may not be a viable strategy any more. Countering the China-Pakistan axis requires India to bring to bear all dimensions of state power, including economic and soft power. And this can only be realised by elevating ties with the West further. We need large-scale Western investments in our technology, defence and manufacturing sectors to kick start the fourth industrial revolution here. Only by growing its own economy quickly can India reduce the vast power gap with China.

In this regard, it’s welcome that foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is travelling to London, Paris and Berlin to hold wide-ranging consultations on strategic-security issues, healthcare and global economic recovery. It’s natural for New Delhi to take greater interest in transatlantic relations when its own ties with Washington are growing. Besides, Europe has just started pushing back against China on technology and 5G. But to capitalise on these synergies with the West, India itself must reform, drop high import barriers and other protectionist policies, and embrace open systems. Multilateralism may be dying, but India must work with the West to usher in a plurilateral order to balance China.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email This piece appeared as an editorial opinion in the print edition of The Times of India.