Covid added many responsibilities to members of the already burdened urban household. With no househelp in the initial days, and many opting to do without any househelp due to the obvious concerns even today, gadgets like dishwashers and fancy mops started making their way into Indian homes. As people started hunting for efficient and labour-saving devices to get daily chores off their hands, another gadget that made a silent entry was the Robotic Vacuum cleaner. In India, cleaning robots market is forecasted to grow at a CAGR of more than 17% during 2021-2025 owing to increasing demand from residential & commercial sector as well as increasing disposable income.

Most people find cleaning the entire house to be a tedious job. Fortunately, today the market is flooded with robot vacuums that will do all the mundane cleaning tasks for you. Robotic vacuum cleaners (also called ‘robovac’) are designed to clean autonomously without generally any human control. All you need to do is program it once by setting its route.

Any basic Robovac uses a powerful suction mechanism to pull dust, dirt, and small impurities off the floor, are able to manoeuvre themselves around on a set route around your home or office, to vacuum the available floor space as efficiently as possible. If you are the one of those who feels the space is not clean till pocha is done, get yourself a Robot Mop with a wet cleaning function.

Robot Mops have a reservoir for water, and a mechanism to either spray or drip the water onto the floor for an attached mop cloth to run over and clean the surface. And since you may find it a hassle to own and operate two different devices, you can also pick up a cleaning robot that offer a combination of vacuuming and mopping which are available in the market today too.

So, if you want to keep your floors clean without lifting a finger, let a robot do the work for you. The options available in the market are more capable and affordable than ever, and we've rounded up a few just for you:



eufy by Anker

With some modestly priced models that start at Rs 13,999, the Eufy robovacs clean everything from crumbs and pet hair to scraps and dust. Their ultra slim robovacs are designed to get every corner, even those beneath the furniture and use smart dynamic navigation whose Path Tracking Sensor will follow a set route to clean floors. You can even use your smartphone to control and check-out where and when your RoboVac cleaned.



ILIFE

Having a wide range of robotic vacuum cleaners, iLife has both variants for dry as well as wet cleaning. Some come with advance features like a slim body, cyclone power cleaning and a vibrating water tank system, and anti-fall & anti-collision sensors that protect the device from getting damaged. They are also Alexa & Google Home Enabled. Some models have up to 5 different cleaning modes.



Mi Robot Vacuum Mop-P:

The Mi Robot Vacuum Mop-P is priced at Rs. 20,000 and offers 2-in-1 sweeping and mopping function with a 2100Pa suction, LDS laser navigation, anti-collide and anti-fall sensors, multi-map support and an excellent app with voice control for ease of use. It also auto-recharges and resumes its duties if it discharges midway.



Eureka Forbes Robo Vac N Mop

Eureka Forbes Robo Vac N Mops have come with powerful suction feature that disinfect as they sweep and mop to make daily cleaning hassle free. They come with remote-controlled multi cleaning modes and work on ‘Duraclean’ battery. Their smart sensing technology also enable auto docking.



SmartAI:

Available in various sizes, some models of the 360 Smart AI robot vacuum cleaners are available at as low as Rs. 14,900. They have built-in anti-collision infrared sensors that help the robot vacuum detect probable areas where it might get stuck and adjust the cleaning path automatically. Anti-dropping sensors prevent the robot vacuum cleaner from falling off the stairs. Its unibody design slides under and around the bed, sofa, and other furniture for a thoroughly clean with high coverage and ultra-low failure rate. The basic model runs for up to 90 minutes and covers upto 1100 Sq ft area at one go.

When the battery is used up or the cleaning is completed, the robot vacuum cleaner is programmed to automatically return to the charging base. You can easily set the cleaning schedule, switch the cleaning mode and control the cleaning direction through the SmartAI application. The automatic vacuum cleaner robot is also compatible with Alexa and Google Assistant, and you can make the robot start and stop cleaning through voice commands too.



iRobot Roomba & Braava:





Starting from Rs 23,900 and going right upto Rs. 1,49,900, various iRobot vacuum cleaning models are available under the Roomba (robot vacuum) and Braava (robot mop) Series that come with a 3-stage cleaning system. Dogs shed. Cats track litter through the house, iRobots are capable of handling it. The Dual Multi-Surface Rubber Brushes are designed to lift, loosen, and eliminate pet hair from your floors. The advanced filtration system captures 99% of mold, pollen, dust mite, dog, and cat allergens. Whether you choose a Roomba® robot vacuum, or a Braava® robot mop⁠ — your floors get the specialised care they need to stay effortlessly clean, every day.



Samsung Jet Bot AI+

Though Samsung has launched other robovacs in the past, do keep an eye out for the world’s first robot vacuum that comes equipped with a 3D active stereo-type sensor and an Intel AI solution to offer accurate yet efficient cleaning. Consumers can experience intelligent cleaning without compromising on hygiene standards thanks to world-class object recognition technology. The Jet Bot AI+ is the world’s first robot vacuum that comes with an active stereo-type 3D sensor, which accurately scans a wide area to avoid small, hard-to-detect objects on the floor, appliances and furniture. Its 3D depth camera—equivalent to 256,000 distance sensors—can precisely detect obstacles as small as 1cm. The robot’s smart decision-making ensures users can have their unit clean closely around items such as children’s toys while maintaining a safe distance from delicate objects like porcelain vases. It can also classify items such as pet excrements, glass cups and electrical cables as dangerous or likely to cause secondary contamination in order to avoid them. Currently available in US and Europe, it will be very soon available in the Indian markets.

Adding a robotic vacuum cleaner to your home cleaning arsenal can provide you with a lot of free time to do things you enjoy. However, see that your home is robot-friendly before you get a friendly robot at home; which means there should be no loose carpets or rugs that might get stuck in its suction. A vacuum robot functions on wheels, so it will work best on hard stone or tile floors.