TOGETHER ‘MCAN’: Dr Pramesh and Dr Devendra (right) from Tata Memorial Hospital with Designer Maheka Mirpuri (centre)



In our ‘Day in the life of’ series, the month of October is a special month earmarked for Cancer Care. In an exclusive Q&A, Mumbai-based fashion designer Maheka Mirpuri talks of her spirited action-packed work to raise funds in support of cancer patients of Tata Memorial Hospital. In its ninth year of existence, MCan initiative strives to raise monetary aid to enable timely oncology care in an affordable manner. Read along to know more…

Q1. Tell us about your milestones during your fashion journey for a cause.

MM: I am one of the lucky few who got to turn their passion into their profession. Being a person with a creative bent of mind, fashion and aesthetics came to me naturally and my life as a fashion designer started at a very young age. Designing fashionable ensembles got me many accolades. I launched from my studio in Prabhadevi, Mumbai. Haute couture is my métier and I fashioned my niche in this exhilarating world by creating spectacular, classy and chic women’s wear ensembles.

Carrying forward my creative vision, I’ve also ventured into design of corporate uniforms, designing for a theatre production, jewellery design as well as conceptualisation of themed events. Fashion is something I’m passionate about. And when you delve into something passionately, the result is obviously going to be nothing short of magic.



Q2. Tell us about the life-changing incident(s) that made you take a different look at life and how did the concept of MCan come about?

MM: Life can be so unpredictable. Just when you think all’s well, a sudden jolt can shake you out of your wits. I’ve always been involved with meaningful causes be it the Mukti Foundation, Make-a-Wish-Foundation, Save the Tiger project, Set Beautiful Free (an NGO that helps build a meaningful life for children of sex workers) or supporting the Terry Fox Foundation’s India chapter. However, the sudden demise of my father and my brother-in-law to cancer in a span of just one year, became a life defining moment for me. Having seen the deadly ‘C’ from such close quarters, I realised that fighting cancer is like a bottomless pit, a huge financial drain and that got me thinking of how difficult it must be for the less privileged to fight this disease.

This thought was the crux for the inception of my charitable initiative MCan, which I set up in 2013 in aid of the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) for providing financial assistance to those from the low socio-economic strata towards cure for cancer as a whole and Head & Neck cancer in particular.

Q3. What do you wish to achieve this year and ahead?

Click on the video link to see Tata Memorial Hospital’s gesture with MCan



MM: Head and Neck cancer is one of the common types of cancer in India, constituting one–third of all cancers. It has the highest incidence amongst less privileged and Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) is amongst the biggest cancer centres in the whole world. Through an annual fundraiser, MCan raises awareness about a disease that can surface at any time and also helps raise grant for the underprivileged fighting Head & Neck cancer at Tata Memorial Hospital. I founded MCan with the single minded purpose of enriching the human experience with hope, strength and joy to help patients who are not only dejected from medication and hospitalization, but also aware that their life span is decreasing.

In the last 8 years, we were able to hand over Rs 6.94 Crores to the Tata Memorial Hospital. Celebrities like Anil Kapoor, Boman Irani, Jackie Shroff, Manisha Koirala, Randeep Hooda, Kunal Kapoor, Soha Ali Khan, Vivek Oberoi, John Abraham, Sonali Bendre and others have pledged their solidarity towards my cause.

In 2020 with the spread of the pandemic, all healthcare-driven focus of others moved to Covid-19 while life threatening non-communicable diseases like cancer got ignored. However, I pledged to continue to do whatever I could in my small little way in order to raise funds and create an impact to help the underprivileged fight cancer at Tata Memorial. Although Covid-19 didn’t allow me to host my charity fundraiser in Mumbai venue, I decided to go ahead and raise funds online through my social media platforms. The challenges were many with the environment being so grim and the economy taking such a big hit, but it was a humbling experience for me to be able to raise Rs. 54.70 Lakhs and still counting. Through online donations and auctions, I hope to raise a substantial amount again this year for those from the low socio-economic strata.

A file shot from the Charity Gala to raise funds by Maheka Mirpuri and Randeep Hooda. (Pic: Umesh Jivnani)



My campaign this year of 2021 is ‘CanDream’ - the message being to fructify the dream of those fighting cancer who probably wishes that life gives him just that much time so that he can secure the life of his loved ones or probably live a happy life with his family or a life free of pain. My dream is to simply add colour to his monochromatic dreams.

I will continue my fight against cancer and my dream is to see a cancer-free world someday!

Q4. What are the nuances of good life to you? How is a typical day of work for an established fashion designer like you?

MM: A nuanced life according to me is one where we all are able to think beyond just ourselves. Because I believe that for it is in giving that we receive! For my designer-driven work, I am the recipient of the Woman Entrepreneur Award by Phulkari, a women’s organisation in Amritsar. Being a fitness enthusiast, I have also been felicitated with the Fit & Fab Award alongside some very celebrated names. Awards and recognition only push me forward to do much more.

I start my day with my workout and alternate it with yoga. Every day, I head to my studio where I spend long hours designing, creating, attending to clients and making endless trips to my workshop to keep a check on fruition of my creative vision.

Life during my fundraiser for Tata Memorial Hospital becomes quite hectic. Visits to the hospital, meeting with the team there, discussing with the doctors, interacting with the patients – it is a lot of work. Added to that is putting together a charity gala. Envisioning a campaign year after year and then sitting with my team to execute the same. It takes a lot of effort and dedication. Every year, I earnestly reach out to my friends for favours in order to curate auction items, getting donations year after year from my near and dear ones, it is not been easy!

I do feel the pressure to accomplish the task that I have taken up, but each time, year after year God makes it happen. In fact, bigger and better. At the end of it all if my efforts are able to save a life, I feel it is all worth it.

Q5. Being on a mission, what do you envision in a great India?

MM: I feel blessed and truly believe that this is my journey and my late father up in the heavens has chosen this path for me. He’s guiding me every single day in my way forward. He taught us to give back and today I’m trying my best to fulfil his dream. I’m grateful to the Tata Memorial Hospital for giving me this opportunity and honour to help the underprivileged fight cancer and I will do my best that I can in my capacity.

Look around and you will see - We lead such comfortable lives. If each one of us can do our bit in giving back to society, the world will be a better place. Any act of kindness however small, is never wasted. The true value of one’s life can be measured by seeing if the person is able to make a significant difference in someone’s life.

My foremost message to all would be that please donate and help out the needy in whichever way you can. It indeed matters.

Nimisha.Tiwari@timesgroup.com