World Bank project promotes Premium Quality Rice in Joha variety ​The Joha rice is grown in Sali/ Kharif season. Major Joha varieties included in this are Kola Joha, Keteki Joha, Bokul Joha, Kunkuni Joha.

India's ethanol blending program will not be at the cost of food production, says ISMA Earlier, the government said around 17 million tonnes of surplus foodgrains will be utilised, apart from sugarcane molasses, for manufacturing ethanol to achieve the target of 20 per cent blending with petrol by 2025.

Centre doubles incentive on sugar sacrificed for producing ethanol from October 2021 In the 2020-21 ethanol marketing year ending November, the country is estimated to achieve an 8.5 per cent blending of ethanol with petrol, with a supply of 3.35 billion litres to oil marketing companies (OMCs), according to ISMA.

Nearly 17 mn tonnes of surplus foodgrains to be used for ethanol making: Food Secy Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the government is encouraging ethanol production not only from molasses but also from foodgrains like maize and rice to achieve the blending targets.

Heavy September rains ensure normal monsoon for third straight year The monsoon rainfall may persist for some more time in October as the moisture-laden winds continue to blow across the country. Total rainfall over the crucial June-September season was 0.7% below the long-period average of 88 centimetres, as per data from the IMD.

Stockists declare 30.97 lakh pulses stock on govt portal so far ​​ "At least 11,635 stockholders have registered declaring 3097694.42 tonne of stock of pulses on the official portal of Department of Consumer Affairs as on September 20, 2021," the ministry said in a statement.

Sugar industry's future looks good but persisting concerns need attention, says rating agency Sugar exports surpassed 5 million tonne mark in early August with Indonesia being the biggest buyer. The report added that the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) increased to Rs 290 per quintal for sugar season 2022. However, the issues of the MSP and cane arrears continue to be important.

September rains damage 12% of kharif crops in Maharashtra Unprecedented rainfall in Marathwada has submerged the soya bean crop. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted formation of Cyclone Shaheen along the Gujarat coast in the next 48 hours, which would continue to pour water along the western coast.

Soyabean Prices crash by 50% in a month The sharp fall in prices has angered farmers across Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Some farmers have started sharing soyabean price trends on social media. The industry has claimed that it was not the farmers but the stockists and the hoarders who had benefitted from the high rates.

PM Modi launches 35 crop varieties with special traits to address climate change, malnutrition The new crop varieties were dedicated to the nation through a video conference organised at all ICAR institutes, state and central agricultural universities and Krishi Vighyan Kendra.

The real agri reforms India needs To date, India’s investments in agriculture has not led to sustained increase in farmer incomes. To remedy this problem, GoI is committed to developing a strategy to double farmers’ income. These public incentives also need to be better designed to reduce the sector’s impact on climate. In 2016, agriculture represented 14% of the country’s emissions.

Tea Research Institute to sign research MoU with Patanjali Patanjali MD Balkrishna stated that Patanjali will work with Industries and Commerce Department to promote medicinal plantation in Assam and buy back from farmers for their products manufactured in Sonitpur and Haridwar.

UP hikes sugarcane purchase price by Rs 25 per quintal "UP govt has decided to increase MSP for sugarcane from Rs 325/quintal to Rs 350/quintal. This'll provide 8% additional income to farmers...We've intensified the process of withdrawing cases lodged against farmers," said CM Yogi Adityanath.

IFFCO's nano urea technology revolution for agriculture sector: Amit Shah Amit Shah described the role of IFFCO in making the Green Revolution successful in the country and praised the world's first nano liquid urea manufactured by IFFCO.

Rural demand expected to get Rs 10,700-cr boost from bumper crops: Report The agriculture ministry projects a good crop in the first advance estimates for the kharif season at over 150 million tonnes. Along with that, the government had also earlier increased the minimum support price (MSP) of all kharif crops by 1-5 per cent with tur, urad, groundnut, jowar and bajra getting the upper end of these new prices. The normal monsoons will also aid the farmers.

MP ahead of other states in developing agriculture infrastructure: Tomar Tomar said that Madhya Pradesh will emerge as a "model state" in the country in the agriculture sector by working on a mission mode.

Load More...