Higher than budgeted revenue collections to help states cut market borrowing: Report Rating agency Icra's chief economist Aditi Nayar on Friday forecast a 4.7 per cent decline in gross issuances of state development loans (SDL) at Rs 7.6 lakh crore. She expects the borrowing to be just Rs 2 lakh crore in Q3 and Rs 2.5 lakh crore in Q4.

Income tax refunds of Rs 80,086 cr issued during this fiscal: CBDT This figure includes income tax refunds of Rs 19,699 crore in 47,53,254 cases and corporate tax refunds of Rs 60,387 crore in 1,63,021 cases, the Board tweeted on Thursday.

Bad Bank should be temporary: Former RBI Governor D Subbarao Subbarao noted that despite the pandemic, the bad loan situation may be somewhat better this year and banks should move quickly and dispose of these assets as they have been provided for. He spoke on the side lines of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s 116th annual session.

GST collections for September at Rs 1.17 lakh crore The average monthly gross GST collection for the second quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5% higher than the average monthly collection of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year. In a statement, the finance ministry said that this is an indication that the economy is recovering at a fast pace.

Government collects Rs 1.17 lakh crore as GST for September, 23% higher YoY The higher revenue collection is a shot in the arm for government's finances that had taken a hit due to pandemic and has seen significant improvement in the second quarter of the current fiscal.

Fiscal deficit touches 31.1 % of annual target at end-August Net tax receipts were Rs 6.45 lakh crore while total expenditure was Rs 12.77 lakh crore, the data showed.

AIIB grants $356.67 mn loan for Chennai Metro; bank's total India funding rises to $6.7 bn With this loan, the bank has so far approved 28 projects in India amounting a total of USD 6.7 billion, said AIIB Vice President for Investment Operations D J Pandian, who oversees all sovereign and non-sovereign lending for the AIIB in South Asia, the Pacific Islands and South-East Asia.

SBI rejects Andhra Pradesh government's Rs 6,500 crore overdraft With its coffers completely dry, the state government sought the overdraft to be used as working capital by five nodal implementing agencies "against securitisation of fund balances available in the Single Nodal Accounts (SNA)."

India's external debt prudently managed despite Covid-19: FM Nirmala Sitharaman "Salient debt indicators such as external debt as a ratio to GDP at 21.1%, debt service ratio at 8.2%, and foreign exchange reserves to external debt ratio at 101.2% are in a zone of comfort," said Sitharaman. "The long-term debt constitutes the bulk."

Cabinet okays Rs 4,400 crore infusion in ECGC, its listing The government said the capital infusion and planned IPO will increase ECGC's underwriting capacity up to ₹88,000 crore and facilitate additional exports of ₹5.28 lakh crore over a five-year period.

India's external debt rises 2.1 per cent to USD 570 billion Reserves to external debt ratio, however, increased to 101.2 per cent from 85.6 per cent during the same period, thereby consolidating the country's position as a net creditor to the world, as per the status report on India's external debt released by the ministry.

India is said to seek to narrow budget deficit target to 6.3% The target reset is buoyed by expectations of robust tax collections in the coming months and achievement of assets-sale target.

I-T department asks taxmen to accept applications till September 30 for settlement before Interim Board The 2021-22 Budget, through the Finance Act, amended the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 to provide that the Income-tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) shall cease to operate from February 1, 2021.

States debt to hit Rs 71.4 lakh crore in FY22: Report According to Crisil's report, GST could grow 20 per cent whereas, the sales tax is seen clipping at 25 per cent. GST and sales tax on petroleum and liquor, major components of revenue, are likely to rebound strongly.

India FinTech adoption very high at 87%: FM Sitharaman The Global FinTech Fest, has been organised by Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), along with its sister organisations Fintech Convergence Council (FCC), Payments Council of India (PCI), and National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI).

Load More...