India, Australia to include e-commerce in final free trade pact: Australian minister The two countries have agreed to have an interim or early harvest trade agreement by Christmas and final free trade agreement or Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) by the end of 2022.

FTA between India and UAE holds huge potential for both countries: Piyush Goyal Piyush Goyal inaugurated the India Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, which showcases India's vibrant culture, along with the diverse partnership opportunities that the country is capable of offering. He said the entire world is looking towards India as a trusted partner.

Exports jump over 21% to $33.44 billion in September The trade deficit in September was at USD 22.94 billion as gold imports jumped nearly 750 per cent to $5.11 billion.

Duty cut lifts India's palm oil imports in Sept to a record 1.4 mn tonnes India lifted restrictions on imports of refined palm oil and slashed base import taxes on palm oil, soyoil and sunflower oil in recent months as New Delhi tries to cool near-record price rises. Higher purchases by India, the world's biggest buyer of vegetable oils, could support palm oil prices that are trading near a record high hit earlier this week.

India, Australia agree to sign a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement by 2022 end Both sides will exchange offers on the proposed deal by October end, the visiting Australian minister for trade, tourism and investment Dan Tehan said, addressing the media along with commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal after the 17th meeting of India-Australia Joint Ministerial Commission.

Lower trade deficit, higher software exports contribute to current in surplus in April-June'21 India’s current account comprising the net of India's export of goods and services recorded a surplus of $ 6.5 billion or 0.9 per cent of GDP in Apeil-June'21 quarter as against a surplus of $ 19.1 billion or 3.7 per cent of GDP a year ago, according to the preliminary numbers released by the Reserve Bank of India.

Tea exports remain stagnant for last 10 years Patel who was in Guwahati on Thursday while talking to media persons said that, “Tea Development & Promotion Scheme (TDPS) which is for five years from 2021-22 has earmarked Rs 967 Crore for supporting tea growers. We have a sector specific allocation of Rs 98 Crore for increasing exports from Northeast India.”

India's agri exports can be doubled in 'medium term', says ITC Chairman There is an urgent need to deal with the agriculture value chain, which would help in improving the quality of income in rural areas and ushering in socio-economic transformation in the country, Puri said while virtually addressing an event organised by industry body PHDCCI.

Our missions over the world are engaging with stakeholders to get more demand: Piyush Goyal We cannot regulate international shipping rates. It is market driven and we are in dialogue with them to see that more ships dock in India. But since it is an international phenomenon and affects all exporters across the world and all international trade, I do believe that while it may take some time, it may not affect as badly as was thought earlier.

Free Trade Agreement is the next frontier in India-US relationship: USIBC president According to the data of the commerce ministry, in 2020-21, the trade between the US and India dropped to USD 80.5 billion as compared to USD 88.9 billion in 2019-20.

RodTEP may be extended to special economic zones and export oriented units SEZs and EoU units have been excluded from the benefits under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products scheme, notified last month.

Extend benefits of tax schemes due to pandemic-led disruption, exporters ask government Exporters claim they have not been able to meet export obligations due to the pandemic. They say the government should either allow them to continue to avail the scheme by extending their time period or give them tax credit that they can adjust against future tax liabilities.

Govt working to ensure balanced trade deals: Piyush Goyal Goyal said the government will unveil robust e-commerce guidelines that will strike a fair balance in protecting small shopkeepers, internal trade, retailers, and ensure an orderly growth of the economy.

India exempts Covid-19 vaccine from import duty "The Central Government, on being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts the goods of the description specified when imported into India, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable," the Board said in a notification issued on September 29.

India, US can aim for $1 trillion trade in next 10 years: Piyush Goyal “I'm happy to look at a trillion dollar target for the next 10 years between the US and India. I'm happy to engage with the US, and look for expanding our economic partnership so that then all four members of the QUAD would have very strong economic ties with each other,” Goyal said at an event organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF).

Export boost: Cabinet approves ECGC listing on bourses, Rs 4,400 cr capital infusion ECGC Limited is a wholly-owned CPSE of the government of India and provides insurance covers to banks against risks in export credit lending to the exporter borrowers. It was set up with the objective of improving the competitiveness of the exports by providing credit risk insurance and related services for exports.

Load More...