Economic indicators rise, signal strengthening recovery from the pandemic India exported goods worth $33.4 billion in September, against $27.6 billion in the previous corresponding period, a rise of 28.5% over the pre-pandemic $26 billion in September 2019, commerce ministry data showed.

Addition of gold reserves from 2018 will help India's sovereign rating: IIM-A study The researchers considered five-year sovereign credit default swap (CDS) spreads for 48 advanced and emerging market countries over a 20-year period, from 2000 to 2020 for measuring the economy's default risk, as per an official statement.

India's manufacturing activities improve in September on strong demand conditions: PMI The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) improved from 52.3 in August to 53.7 in September, indicating a stronger expansion in overall business conditions across the sector. The September PMI data pointed to an improvement in overall operating conditions for the third straight month.

India's external debt rises 2.9 per cent in the June quarter External debt rose 2.9 per cent in the June quarter over the same period a year ago to $571 billion according to the latest data released by the Reserve Bank of India. The increase has been largely on account of a rise in multilateral and bilateral debt by the government.

Core sector output expanded by 11.6% in August compared to 9.9% in July Core sector output expanded by 11.6% in August compared to 9.9% in July. The growth was led by sectors like Coal, Natural Gas, Refinery Products, Steel, Cement and Electricity. Cement production expanded the most among all industries at 36.3 per cent in August, 2021 over August, 2020. Electricity generation witnessed growth of 15.3% in August.

April-August fiscal deficit reaches 31.1% of FY22 target The deficit figure in the current fiscal appears much better than the previous financial year when it had soared to 109.3 per cent of the estimates.

Core data points to strong recovery in infra & economy, say experts “On the whole, the core sector growth rate is encouraging as it points to further acceleration during the course of the year as the government gets down to spending more as indicated to all ministries,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings.

India current account records surplus in three months to end-June The current account surplus stood at $6.5 billion compared to a surplus of $19.1 billion in the same quarter a year ago. In the preceding January-March quarter the current account was in a deficit of $8.1 billion.

Core sector output expands 11.6% in August Cement production expanded the most among all industries at 36.3 per cent in August, 2021 over August, 2020​​​

Retail inflation for industrial workers eases to 4.79% in August At the item level, cow milk, dairy milk, mustard oil, palm oil, soyabean oil, almond, sugar-white, tea leaf, cooking gas, hospital/nursing home charges, petrol for vehicle, and toilet soap, are responsible for the rise in the index.

India's digital infra to set it apart in tech-led growth: CEA KV Subramanian “JAM trinity, overall digital transactions which started from demonetization and has been accelerated by the pandemic positions India singularly well for technology-led growth,” he said.

Expect more than 7 pc growth for India this decade: CEA During the current fiscal, he said, growth would be in double-digits and it could moderate to 6.5 - 7 per cent in the next financial year. The Economic Survey 2020-21, released in January this year, had projected GDP growth of 11 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022.

FinMin officials pitch for better sovereign rating outlook with Moody's Sources said the meeting was attended by Chief Economic Advisor K V Subramanian and other officers from the Department of Economic Affairs and Moody's analyst. The meeting is a precursor to Moody's annual sovereign rating action.

ICRA, CARE raise growth forecast on decent Q1 ICRA has revised its projection of the real GDP growth in 2021-22 to 9% from 8.5% while Care has raised its forecast to 9-9.2% from 8.8-9% earlier. Economists at the two agencies said the GDP outcome has been better than expected in the first quarter and prospects for the second half of the year are brightening.

S&P retains India’s 9.5% growth forecast for FY22; consumption, domestic macro indicators weak As per the report, households and micro and small enterprises were most affected in the latest downturn and will slow the recovery while they repair their balance sheets. Inflation remains relatively high, and public debt worries persist.

Households in southern states more indebted than rest of India: Report In 2019, Telangana with 67.2 per cent had the highest proportion of its rural households indebted and Nagaland with 6.6 per cent had the lowest proportion of its rural households indebted.

Load More...