UIDAI plans to open 166 standalone Aadhaar enrolment and update centres The operational centres have a capacity to handle up to 1,000 enrolments and update requests per day for Model-A ASKs, upto 500 enrolments and update requests per day for Model B ASKs and up to 250 enrolments and update requests per day for Model C ASKs.

Retrospective tax settlement: Companies will have to indemnify the Indian government The Central Board of Direct Taxes notified the final rules for settlement of retrospective cases after incorporating certain changes following comments from stakeholders on draft rules, issued on August 28.

IBC seminal reform; instrumental in changing feudal mindset of promoters: CEA "One big change that the IBC has brought is that it has ended feudalism of the promoters in a capitalistic society. There is absolutely no space for feudalism in an economic society which is actually based on freedom," he said at the 5th annual day of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI).

RBI opens third cohort under the Regulatory Sandbox “The MSME segment has emerged as the growth engine of Indian economy contributing significantly to the economic and social development of the country by fostering entrepreneurship and generating large employment opportunities through business innovations,” the RBI said in a statement.

RBI may signal policy normalisation on October 8, Standard Chartered says The consensus view is that the RBI will leave interest rates unchanged at its Oct. 8 MPC meeting and only start to unwind its accommodative monetary policy by reducing the gap between the repo and reverse repo rates early next year.

GST collection for September around Rs 1,17,010 cr, 23% higher YoY The government has collected Rs 1,17,010 crore GST for the month of September which is 23% higher than the same period last year. The higher revenue collection is a shot in the arm for government's finances that had taken a hit due to pandemic and has seen significant improvement in the second quarter of the current fiscal.

Online gaming: Wait for GoM's decision, High Court tells GST authorities According to a recent AAR ruling, online games are classifiable under online information and data-based access or retrieval services or OIDAR services, under GST which is taxable even if the cloud is located outside India. However, contention is open on whether recent games like Dream 11 that offer fantasy sports gaming services qualify as a game of skill or gambling.

Govt to empanel merchant bankers and law firms for OFS, dribbling "The GOI envisages to disinvest its shareholding in CPSE’s through the Offer for Sale through Stock Exchange Mechanism/sale of Shares in stock market (Dribbling) from time to time for which this Request for Proposal (RFP) for Empanelment of merchant bankers-cum-selling brokers is being floated," the department said.

Expanding scope of ECLGS to help MSMEs, address funds shortage: Industry The government has decided to extend the timeline of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till March 31, 2022, or till guarantees for an amount of Rs 4.5 lakh crore are issued under the scheme, whichever is earlier.

Government widens scope of ECLGS, extends scheme deadline till March The validity of the scheme has been extended by another six months till March 31, 2022, the ministry said in a statement. The government has been receiving demands from various industry bodies and other stakeholders to extend the scheme to ensure continued support to eligible sectors/businesses.

Economic theories need to be revisited post COVID: Report An econometric analysis of the link between inflation and output gap over 15 year or 60 quarters period period the link between inflation and output gap was strong between 2016 to 2018 but started weakening since then.

Govt extends foreign trade policy till March next year “The existing FTP 2015-2020, which is valid up to September 30, 2021 is extended up to March 31, 2022,” the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification.

UIDAI slashes Aadhaar authentication charge to Rs 3: CEO Saurabh Garg "We have slashed the rate from Rs 20 per authentication to Rs 3 and the objective has been to ensure that different agencies, entities should be able to use the power of digital infrastructure which has been created by the state that needs to be used to provide people with ease of living with dignity," Garg said.

Post-pandemic policies must give adequate recognition to mental wellbeing: FM "One key principle underpinning the post-pandemic recovery with policies integrating health and social protection is the institutional recognition of mental wellbeing of vulnerable sections through psychosocial support. Future policies must adequately provide for this imperative," FM Sitharaman said in her virtual address.

India seeks curbs at WTO on fishing in distant waters As per India's proposal submitted at WTO, overfishing would be self-determined by a member or by Regional Fishery Management Organisation.

PLI scheme to benefit domestic auto, parts industries in multiple ways: Report Besides, it will increase localisation, accelerate investments towards a local EV ecosystem and has the potential to make India an export hub in the global auto supply chain, Icra said in the report.

Load More...