JSPL investors okay pay hike for chief Naveen Jindal Around 25% of the institutional shareholders voted against the resolution on giving a hike in remuneration for the company's chairman Naveen Jindal.

Grasim Industries gets Rs 8,334-crore income tax demand This is related to the scheme of Grasim Industries' merger with Aditya Birla Nuvo and Aditya Birla Financial Services.

Nitin Seth, former COO at Ashok Leyland to join Reliance Industries' new energy business Nitin Seth left Hinduja Group flagship firm Ashok Leyland after serving for 11 years. He successfully led a strong team in building Ashok Leyland's light commercial vehicle (LCV) business as well as other businesses.

Rajeev Gopalakrishnan elevated as President - APAC at Bata Global Group Rajeev Gopalakrishnan took over from Sandeep Kataria. Earlier in May, Gunjan Shah was appointed as new chief executive officer.

Rise above geopolitical tensions, protectionism for trade reforms: CEOs to govts The signatories included Mastercard's Ajay S Banga, John Keells Holdings' Krishan N Balendra, Zilingo Pte Ltd's Ankiti Bose, Dolf van den Brink of HEINEKEN NV, Al Kelly Jr of Visa Inc, Schneider Electric's Jean-Pascal Tricroire, Standard Chartered Bank's Jose Vinals and Noel Quinn of HSBC Holdings Plc.

Zee-Invesco tussle not good for corporate India: Harsh Goenka Invesco, which holds 17.88% stake in ZEE, had sent a notice to the ZEE board requisitioning an EGM of the company to consider removal of MD & CEO Punit Goenka and two other non-independent non-executive directors from the company’s board.

Shipsy announces work from home indefinitely In order to foster innovation and collaboration, the company is opening hot desks across India.

LIC invites application for post of CFO The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government in meeting its disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 (April-March). So far this fiscal, Rs 9,110 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSU and sale of SUUTI stake in Axis Bank.

Our footprint was more in larger cities, now we will get into Bharat: Ajay Piramal, Chairman, Piramal Group We believe that one of the biggest growth areas for the country are going to be the emerging India or Bharat. In tier two, tier three, tier four cities and therefore with the branches and the understanding of the market, not only do we have an opportunity as far as affordable housing finance is concerned but in other areas as well.

Crisil elevates Amish Mehta as MD & CEO Mehta has more than two decades of leadership experience across industries and joined Crisil in October 2014 as President and Chief Financial Officer.

Marico launches hybrid work framework for all employees in India The company aims to offer a work model where members will have the benefits of work from home as well as office to better manage work and family needs while delivering on business commitments. According to the new policy, employees will be moved to a ‘Work from Office on Roster’ (WFOR) system under which they can come to the office on a pre-decided frequency.

This 23-year-old IITian is the youngest self-made individual on Hurun India Rich List 2021 Shashvat Nakrani is an alumnus of IIT Delhi and is co-founder of fintech player BharatPe along with Ashneer Grover and Bhavik Koladiya.

TCS wins large deal from MCX to build new trading platform The project, dubbed Udaan, is among the largest and most complex projects that Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is currently undertaking in India, bringing low-latency, high volumes and high resilience to the MCX trading platform.

Byju's Raveendran now richer than Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, Mahindra Byju Raveendran & family’s wealth stood at Rs 24,300 crore, according to the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2021.

Adani earns Rs 1,002 cr a day, now Asia's 2nd richest: IIFL Wealth-Hurun India report This is the first time that both Gautam Adani and his Dubai-based brother Vinod Shantilal Adani have broken into the top 10 of the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List, 2021, which showed Adani climbed two spots to the No 2 spot.

USIBC to present Global Leadership Award to Shiv Nadar and Mallika Srinivasan Past recipients of the awards include - Tata group Chairman N Chandrasekaran, Lockheed Martin CEO Jim Taiclet, Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Nasdaq president Adena Friedman.

Load More...