Reliance floats UAE subsidiary for trading in oil The plans follow an announcement in June that the Indian conglomerate will invest in projects of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. to produce chemicals that can be used for infrastructure and consumer goods.

In Pictures: Pavilions from the extravagant Dubai Expo Over the past eight years, Dubai has been preparing for a world fair, pumping in millions of dollars to build a six-month long trade extravaganza in a bid to draw investment and attention. On October 1, after a year long delay, the fair opened its doors to the world. Here's how it looks.

For first time, Dubai Expo 2020 says 5 workers died on site Laborers in the UAE are barred from unionization and have few protections, often working long hours for little pay and living in substandard conditions.

Dubai's Expo opens, bringing first world's fair to Mideast The UAE's falcon-shaped pavilion, by far the site's largest, takes visitors on a two-hour-long immersive experience through dunes of real orange sand and footage from the country's 50-year history.

Dubai Expo 2020 opens with extravagant show, after a year-long delay due to COVID pandemic Dubai opened Expo 2020 in an extravagant ceremony Thursday that bathed the site's signature central dome in light, a symbolic beacon for the city-state's hopes that the world's fair will draw tourists despite the coronavirus pandemic. Delayed a year by the virus, Expo 2020 has over 190 countries taking part in the event that will last six months.

Expo 2020 Dubai kicks off with lavish opening ceremony Dubai, the region's tourism, trade and business hub, is hoping to boost its economy by attracting 25 million business and tourist visits to the world fair which has been built from scratch on 4.3 sq km (1.7 sq mile) of desert.

India likely to push for strict origin norms in UAE FTA talks India will also take a call on the UAE's request to include government procurement, small and medium enterprises and e-commerce in the proposed FTA, as this could have a bearing on the country's stance on these issues in the World Trade Organization.

UAE announces ministerial changes including finance, environment Sheikh Maktoum bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum has been appointed finance minister and deputy prime minister and Maryam Al Muhairi becomes the minister of climate change and environment.

UAE central bank starts gradual curb of COVID-19 stimulus measures The bank launched a Targeted Economic Support Scheme (TESS) to help banks provide temporary relief to companies and individuals affected by the crisis and boost lending capacity through the relief of existing capital and liquidity buffers.

Dubai turns page on Covid-19 with hottest jobs market in two years With labor shortages and hiring difficulties hold back the labor market in parts of Europe and employment is dropping in countries like Australia after the delta variant of coronavirus forced lockdowns, the oil-rich Gulf region can lean on foreign workers to fill most private-sector jobs.

India, UAE to sign trade pact in 6 months, Round-1 of talks this week The first round of negotiations for an early harvest under the CEPA will be held on September 23-24. The pact is expected to increase bilateral trade in goods to $100 billion within five years of the signed agreement and that in services to $15 billion but that projection is now being reassessed.

India, UAE plan to lift bilateral trade to $100 billion in 5 years via new pact A new strategic economic agreement is expected to increase bilateral trade in goods to $100 billion within five years of the signed agreement," the ministers said in a joint statement released on Wednesday.

UAE eases COVID-19 face mask rules as Expo nears While adhering to a two-metre distancing rule, masks can now be removed when doing exercise in public places, on beaches and at poolsides, in hair salons and in medical centres when being treated.

UAE welcomes regional rivals at major natural gas conference In a scene that would have been unthinkable just a year ago, the Emirati oil minister held forth from a crowded conference room beside the Qatari minister of state for energy, the first such visit since the UAE and three other Arab states imposed an embargo on Qatar in 2017.

Amazon to create 1,500 jobs in UAE this year Job creation will come from expansion of delivery and storage facilities, it said in a statement. There were no details on how many of those jobs will be direct ones.

Load More...