Saudis triumph in oil market with comeback from the coronavirus crisis Eighteen months after slashing crude production during the pandemic, Riyadh is set to pump at almost pre-Covid levels of 9.8 million barrels a day this month as a recovering global economy clamours for energy supplies.

Israel foreign minister lands in Bahrain on landmark visit The Israeli top diplomat touched down at Manama airport, where a Gulf Air plane was due to take off for the first commercial flight between the two countries shortly afterwards.

Saudi Arabia plans to issue green bonds soon to advance ESG plans Hani Al-Medaini, acting chief executive officer of the Finance Ministry's National Debt Management Center, said the government will also be looking at financing backed by export credit agencies, in addition to conventional and Islamic bonds.

Saudi imports from UAE drop 33% in July after new trade rules Imports from neighbouring UAE fell to 3.1 billion riyals ($827 million) in July from 4.6 billion riyals in June, according to data from the General Authority for Statistics. On an annual basis, UAE imports declined by about 6%.

Jaishankar welcomes Saudi counterpart on his first-ever India visit "Delighted to welcome FM of Saudi Arabia HH Prince @Faisalbinfarhan for his first-ever visit to India," Jaishankar tweeted and posted a picture of two of them. A few hours ago, Prince Faisal bin Farhan arrived in New Delhi on a three-day visit. During his visit, he will call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 20.

Going 'where money is,' Gulf Islamic Investments readies its biggest deal with Saudi Arabia and India investment Gulf Islamic Investments (GII) co-founder Mohammed Alhassan said the firm plans to buy a stake in a Saudi healthcare company for around $600 mn. Another priority area for GII is India, where the total asset value of the firm’s healthcare investments doubled in the last two years, according to co-founder Pankaj Gupta.

Saudi economy grows 1.8% in Q2 but non-oil sector loses steam The figures, published on Monday by the General Authority for Statistics, revised upwards earlier estimates of a 1.5% overall growth in the second quarter, but they also revised non-oil growth to 8.4% from an earlier 10.1%.

Newly released FBI memo hints at Saudi involvement with 9/11 hijackers The memo from April 4, 2016, which had been classified until now, showed links between Omar Bayoumi, at the time a student but suspected to have been a Saudi intelligence operative, and two of the Al-Qaeda operatives who took part in the plot to hijack and crash four airliners into targets in New York and Washington.

Saudi Arabia, 20 years after 9/11: 'A country in the making' "It's a new country. It is a country in the making," says Raghida Dergham, founder of the Beirut Institute think tank and a longtime columnist in Saudi papers. What has happened over the past 20 years in Saudi Arabia, Dergham says, has amounted to "a major cleanup of extremism ... and it has not been easy."

Two decades after 9/11, Saudi Arabia seeks softer image The kingdom, a long-time American ally, denied any involvement but faced harsh US rhetoric over its social and education systems that critics said promoted extremism.

Saudi Arabia lowers light crude prices to Asia; US, Europe prices steady Oil giant Saudi Aramco lowered the price differential of light crude for delivery to the Far East in October to a premium of $1.7 per barrel versus the average of Oman and Dubai crudes, according to a company pricing document. The price differential in September was a premium of $3 dollars per barrel.

Saudi Arabia's first batch of female soldiers graduate from Armed Forces Womens Cadre Training Centre Saudi Arabia started allowing women to drive vehicles in 2018 after a decades-old ban. It was one of many initiatives to integrate women into the Saudi society, especially by providing them with job opportunities.

Saudi TV: Drone attack on airport wounds 8, damages plane The Saudi-led military coalition fighting the Iran-backed Shiite rebels in Yemen did not elaborate on the attack or provide details about the casualties, beyond saying that its forces had "intercepted" the explosive drone.

Saudi students return to school after 17 months Only fully vaccinated students aged above 12 can return to school, while elementary and preschool students are not allowed to return for the moment, Xinhua news agency reported on Monday.

How Saudi Arabia’s NEOM aims to be Bollywood’s next powerhouse production partner A sustainable proposition, NEOM is delivering targeted vocational education to develop world-class talent; support entrepreneurs with start-up and incentive-based funding; and provide world-class infrastructure across screen production, gaming, and digital publishing, exploiting technology to expand the creative process beyond current boundaries.

Qatar appoints ambassador to Saudi Arabia, says emir's office Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain resolved in January to lift a boycott imposed in mid-2017 and restore political, trade and travel ties with Doha.

Load More...