S&P revises Oman outlook to positive on higher oil prices, reforms Oman's debt as share of GDP hit nearly 80% last year having been little more than 5% in 2015. The International Monetary Fund last month estimated that total government debt is expected to drop to 70% this year.

Elon Musk's Tesla enters African market with its first Superchargers Over the years, CEO Elon Musk has often talked about Tesla launching in his native Africa, especially his home country of South Africa, but it has yet to happen. It doesn't mean that there are no Tesla vehicles in Africa.

Venezuela introduces new currency with 6 fewer zeros This is the third time Venezuela's socialist leaders have lopped zeros off the currency. The bolivar lost three zeros in 2008 under the late President Hugo Chavez, while his successor, current President Nicolas Maduro, eliminated five zeros in 2018.

Sri Lanka lifts 6-week virus lockdown amid economic worries The lifting of the lockdown is hoped to boost tourism and ease a decline in foreign exchange that had led to a shortage of essential items such as milk powder, sugar and cooking gas. Long lines formed outside shops in the capital Colombo and its suburbs as people rushed to buy milk powder.

Taiwan says resolving chip shortages needs Malaysia's help Malaysia is home to suppliers and factories serving semiconductor makers such as Europe's STMicroelectronics and Infineon, as well as major carmakers including Toyota Motor Corp and Ford Motor Co.

Counterpoint slashes global smartphone market growth forecast to 6% amid semiconductor shortage According to Counterpoint Research's latest Global Smartphone Quarterly Shipment Forecasts, total units shipped in 2021 are expected to grow by only 6 per cent annually to 1.41 billion units. Counterpoint had previously projected 9 per cent annual growth to 1.45 billion units.

US slightly revises up its GDP estimate for Q2 to 6.7% The government's estimate of growth in the second quarter _ its last of three _ was up from its previous estimate of a 6.6% annual pace. It will likely mark a high point for the economy's expansion this year as the virus slows some activity, government support programs wind down and manufacturing supply-chain issues persist.

UK economy bounced back by more than thought in Q2 UK's gross domestic product (GDP) increased by 5.5% in the second quarter, the Office for National Statistics said, compared with its preliminary estimate of growth of 4.8%. Thursday's data showed households increased their spending by almost 8% in the April-June period and they dipped into their coronavirus lockdown savings to fund it.

Automakers are about to shake up the auto insurance industry In its latest research, PTOLEMUS Consulting Group has found that connected car insurance is increasingly replacing traditional car insurance, driven by the COVID pandemic but also OEMs' own initiatives.

How global supply chains are falling out of fashion This shipping quandary is roiling several companies in the clothes, and wider consumer, industry. Hugo Boss is also looking to bring manufacturing operations closer to its markets, for example, while more immediately Lululemon, Gap and Kohl's say they'll rely more heavily on far costlier air freight to avoid running out of stock during the holiday season.

The king of oil Alex Beard bets on batteries for a green world Alex Beard, once one of the world's most powerful oil traders, says oil and gas will continue to play a vital part in global energy supply but renewables will grow faster and hundreds of billions of dollars will be spent on the energy transition away from carbon in the coming years.

Cash-strapped Evergrande Group to sell $1.5 billion stake in Shengjing Bank to state firm Shengjing Bank, one of the main lenders to Evergrande, had demanded that all net proceeds from the disposal be used to settle the financial liabilities of the property developer due to the lender, Evergrande said in an exchange filing.

G20 financial institutions have $22 tn exposure to polluting industries: Report While banks' exposure is to the tune of USD 13.8 trillion, asset managers' equity holdings are worth USD 6.6 trillion, and the remainder USD 1.8 trillion are in cash and government securities, Moody's Investor Service said in its report.

Chinese switch to flashlights, generators amid power cuts The power cuts come as global leaders prepare to attend a U.N. environmental conference by video link on Oct. 12-13 in the southwestern city of Kunming. That increases pressure on President Xi Jinping's government, as the meeting's host, to show it is sticking to emissions and energy efficiency targets.

Why China is doing what it is doing and can its economy overtake USA's GDP? Swaminathan Aiyar’s take Can China's growing economy overtake USA's GDP and why China is cracking down on its businesses? Swaminathan Aiyar, Consulting Editor, ET NOW says the Chinese government feels that they will lose control. China is a very important part of the world economy, he adds. China is now focusing on the hi-tech and strategic areas and it is ahead of America in battery storage, he says.

Myanmar's junta powerless as currency drops 60% in four weeks, economy tanks The increasing economic pressures come amid signs of an upsurge in bloodshed, as armed militias have become bolder in clashes with the army after months of protests and strikes by opponents of the junta.

Load More...