What you need to know about Merck’s new COVID treatment medicine The pills are meant for people who are sick with COVID but are not in the hospital.

UN agency for Palestinian refugees has urgent budget crisis The U.N. agency helping Palestinian refugees is facing an ``existential'' budget crisis and appealing for urgent funding of $120 million to keep essential education, healthcare and other services running, the agency's chief said Friday.``We keep struggling, running after cash,'' Philippe Lazzarini told a small group of reporters.

La Palma volcano eruption forces stay-home order for some residents Authorities told several thousand residents of La Palma to stay home because of worsening air quality as the erupting volcano on the Spanish island spewed red-hot lava and thick clouds of black smoke.

Philippine leader Duterte announces retirement from politics Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Saturday announced he was retiring from politics and dropping plans to run for vice president in next year's elections when his term ends, avoiding a legal battle with opponents who question such a move.Speaking before reporters, Duterte said many Filipinos have expressed their opposition to his vice-presidential bid in surveys and public forums.

COVID-19: Global deaths hit five million, Delta variant spreads; America crosses 7,00,000 deaths Since 2020, the coronavirus has claimed five million lives, ravaging countries and their economies in the process. While many countries had been under lockdown, post the emergence of vaccines, there have been relaxations in guidelines.

Donald Trump asks Florida judge to force Twitter to restart his account In July Trump sued Twitter, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google, as well as their chief executives, alleging they unlawfully silence conservative viewpoints.

Superfans lie low as China cracks down on 'false idols' Xiao earned legions of devoted, mostly female fans through his role in the 2019 fantasy drama The Untamed, and has over 29 million followers on Weibo alone.

Watch: A snappy crocodile takes down flying drone in Australian city of Darwin A crocodile leapt out of the water and snapped up a drone while it was filming at a lagoon in the northern Australian city of Darwin. The unusual incident occurred while the Australian Broadcasting Corporation was filming a documentary to mark the 50th anniversary of the ban on hunting crocodiles in the Northern Territory.

Only 34% Americans think US is heading in right direction, Biden's approval ratings slump: AP-NORC Poll US President Joe Biden's popularity has slumped after a slew of challenges in recent weeks at home and abroad for the leader who pledged to bring the country together and restore competence in government, according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Fifty percent now say they approve of Biden, while 49% disapprove. Fifty-four percent approved in August, and 59% did in July. Just 34% of Americans say the country is headed in the right direction, down from about half who said that through the first months of Biden's presidency.

United Nations committee to review Taliban credential issue to meet in November Initially, Afghanistan's Permanent Representative appointed by the ousted Ashraf Ghani-government, Ghulam Isaczai, was listed to speak for the country on the final day of the General Debate on September 27. However, Isaczai withdrew his participation.

Tornado rips through western NSW- What are tornadoes and what do we need to know? Australia has the right environmental conditions that favour the formation of tornadoes, which have the fastest wind speeds of any natural hazard type on Earth.

As need in Afghanistan grows dire, aid groups plead for help Around 18 million Afghans, almost half the population, are now in urgent need of humanitarian assistance, according to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

View: Can geoegineering fix climate change? The trade-off between geoengineering and carbon removal depends on one’s time horizon. The sooner cooling is pursued, the greater the environmental and social impacts of carbon removal.

I got Covishield from India, says Abdulla Shahid, President of the 76th UN General Assembly He was responding to a question on whether any COVID vaccine should be recognised and considered or the ones that have been validated by the World Health Organisation or any other group.

US $3.5T Infra plan: Biden vows to 'get it done,' but talks drag with feuding Democrats Democratic lawmakers left a meeting Friday with President Joe Biden focused on 'unity' in moving ahead to pass both pieces of legislation for his big domestic agenda. Biden traveled to Capitol Hill and pledged to 'get it done' as Democrats strain to rescue a scaled back version of his $3.5 trillion government overhaul and salvage a related public works bill. Biden huddled privately with House Democrats. This after days of frantic negotiations with no deal.

Lithuania vs. China: A Baltic minnow defies a rising superpower In the battlefield of geopolitics, Lithuania versus China is hardly a fair fight — a tiny Baltic nation with fewer than 3 million people against a rising superpower with 1.4 billion. Lithuania’s military has no tanks or fighter jets, and its economy is 270 times smaller than China’s.

Load More...