New drug combination found effective against coronavirus infection: Study The researchers noted that this does not necessarily mean that the combination works in humans, but could be a hot tip for researchers who are already testing nafamostat in the fight against COVID-19.

Bringing back the Woolly Mammoth: Can extinct species be resurrected? It is the elephant in the genomics room: can extinct species be resurrected? One bioscience firm insists they can, announcing Monday its intent to use emerging technology to restore the woolly mammoth to the Arctic tundra.

Climate explained: What is an ice age and how often do they happen? Ice ages are not uniformly cold. There can be colder and warmer periods during the overall ice-age period. Colder periods lead to more extensive areas of continental ice sheets, valley glaciers and sea ice, while warmer periods lead to reduced areas of ice.

India, US to conclude MoU to safeguard satellites from natural, man-made threats The issue of expanding bilateral space cooperation figured during PM Narendra Modi’s meeting with the American leadership in Washington last week.

IIT Guwahati develops water-repellent material for wearable motion sensors Wearable motion sensors are used for physiological monitoring of human movement for gait analysis, understanding human and machine interactions, and monitoring patients during rehabilitation processes, according to a release issued by the premier institution.

Cold showers are said to be good for you – here's what the evidence shows The reason a blast of cold water might stop people from getting ill is not clear, but some research suggests it may have something to do with boosting the immune system. A study from the Czech Republic showed that when “athletic young men” were immersed in cold water three times a week for six weeks, it gave a slight boost to their immune system.

Made for mission life of six months, India's Mars probe completes seven years in orbit ISRO has been continuously monitoring the spacecraft and its five scientific instruments, and officials said analysis of the data being received from MOM spacecraft is in progress.

WHO recommends antibody treatment for critical Covid patients The WHO Guideline Development Group (GDG) panel recommends treatment combining casirivimab and imdevimab for two specific groups of patients with COVID-19.

Oldest human footprints in North America found in New Mexico The findings may shed light on a mystery that has long intrigued scientists: When did people first arrive in the Americas, after dispersing from Africa and Asia?

Is the delta variant of the coronavirus worse for kids? Delta's ability to spread more easily makes it more of a risk to children and underscores the need for masks in schools and vaccinations for those who are old enough, said Dr. Juan Dumois, a pediatric infectious disease physician at Johns Hopkins All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg, Florida.

What a fungus reveals about the Space program Now a new generation of rockets, engineers, scientists and explorers are ready to assault the sky.

Where NASA will send its first robotic Moon rover to search for ice VIPER will land near the moon’s south pole, at the western edge of the 45-mile-wide Nobile crater, which formed when something hit the moon.

Why Universe is expanding? New dark energy may explain Cosmologists have found signs of a previously unknown type of dark energy -- a primordial form of the substance -- which may explain why the cosmos now seems to be expanding faster than theory predicts. According to cosmologists, the type of dark energy might have existed in the first 3,00,000 years after the Big Bang, Nature reported.

Covid origins probe: The Lancet does U-turn over lab leak theory The Lancet, had in February last year, published an open letter that "strongly condemned conspiracy theories" surrounding the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, suggesting that Covid-19 does not have a natural origin.

Load More...