ZEE moves Bombay high court against Invesco’s demand for EGM Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund, both owned by Invesco, own a total of 17.88% stake in ZEE.

Zee digs its heels in, refuses to hold EGM demanded by Invesco The board of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd will not hold an extraordinary general meeting as insisted by investors. This decision, announced today, came just after the National Company Law Tribunal said that the board should consider holding an EGM.

NCLT directs ZEE board to consider Invesco’s requisition for EGM before Oct 3 On September 11, Invesco, which holds 17.88% stake in ZEE, had sent a notice to the ZEE board requisitioning an EGM of the company to consider removal of MD & CEO Punit Goenka and two other non-independent non-executive directors from the company’s board and induction of six new independent directors.

Viacom18 names Jyoti Deshpande as CEO Deshpande has been with Reliance Industries since April 2018 as president of the chairman's office for Media Platform & Content.

Creator Day India: Facebook sees a jump in creators monetising in India Facebook has seen over 35% growth year-over-year in the number of monetising creators and video publishers in India and over 160% growth in in-stream revenue earned by monetising creators and video publishers.

YouTube blocks all anti-vaccine content The move comes as YouTube and other tech giants like Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. have been criticized for not doing enough to stop the spread of false health information on their sites.

Will take necessary action as per applicable law: Zee Entertainment on board reshuffle demand Two investment firms -- Invesco Developing Markets Fund (formerly Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund) and OFI Global China Fund LLC, which together hold 17.88 per cent stake in ZEEL -- had earlier this month sought an extraordinary general meeting to remove Goenka and two independent directors Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien.

Nikunj Dalmia named managing editor of ET NOW Swadesh In his new role, Dalmia will lead all editorial decisions and oversee the management of the new channel besides continuing in his role as the managing editor of English business news channel, ET NOW, Times Network said.

Twists in Sony-ZEE Merger saga; Invesco stands firm over removal of Punit Goenka The announcement of the non-binding merger pact on Wednesday underlines Invesco’s case for change, it said in a September 23 note to the ZEE board. Invesco said it had first sought an EGM to discuss the matter of directors on September 11.

India merger of Sony, Zee to create TV powerhouse challenging Disney The Sony-Zee alliance, with about 75 news, entertainment, sports and movie channels in more than 10 languages, stands to become India's biggest player, with a market share of 27% outstripping that of Disney's Star India, at 24%.

After Zee & Dish TV, promoters set to face investor ire in Zee Learn, Zee Media now Zee Entertainment last week witnessed shareholder activism that saw an open call for the ouster of promoters and the incumbent management led by Punit Goenka. Besides, Dish TV also faced a similar call earlier this month. The trouble at Zee Entertainment can be gauged from the fact that this is a unique company wherein the promoters own just 3.99 per cent, but fully control the firm.

ZEE condemns allegations against former board members Chokhani and Kurien “Under the mentorship of Chokhani and Kurien, along with all the members of the Board, the interest of the shareholders has always been paramount for the company, and it is committed to maintain the highest standards of governance and transparency,” ZEE said in the statement.

ET Catalyse Episode 19: Marketing in 2021 - Learnings from the past, plans for the future We kick-off the latest season of ET Catalyse with a look back at how brands and agencies coped with the over-night effects of the Pandemic, and the key learnings and indefinite changes that have taken place since.We gaze into the crystal ball with three industry veterans who give their take and predictions on what’s to come in the world of e-commerce, television and FMCG. The premiere episode of ET Catalyse Season 2 features: Kartik Iyer, Vice President and Head of Publicis Commerce, India and GDD; Rohit Kapoor, Director, Marketing Operations, Perfetti Van Melle India; and Sonali Bhattacharya, Head of Marketing, Kids TV Network, Viacom18. In conversation with Deepak Ajwani, Editor, ET Digital.ET Catalyse provides a platform for in-depth conversations and associations with some of the most notable names in advertising, marketing, technology and digital media.►For Partnerships & Panelists Opportunities, please visit - https://etcatalyse.com/become-a-panelist►For more ET Catalyse content - https://etcatalyse.com/

After ZEE stock surge, D-Street waits to see if CEO Goenka gets the boot Much of Tuesday's investor enthusiasm built up around a possible cleaning up of the business after the company's largest investor, Invesco Oppenheimer, pushed for an ouster of Goenka, the elder son of the company's founder Subhash Chandra Goenka.

ZEEL aims to enhance profitability under ZEE 4.0: Punit Goenka The remarks come against the backdrop of the company's two largest shareholders -- Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC -- seeking Goenka's removal from the board.

Rakesh Jhunjhunwala buys stake in Zee Entertainment amid board room tussle Jhunjhunwala’s investment firm bought 5 million shares of the company at Rs. 220.4 per share on a day when the stock soared 40 per cent.

Load More...