On the mid morning of May 6, 1954, 25-year-old British medical student Roger Bannister took a train to Oxford and had a leisurely lunch with old friends before catching up with two fellow athletes Chris Brasher and Christopher Chataway before going to the Iffley Road Track where destiny was waiting for him. He put on his track suit and spiked leather shoes and set off on the first race of the season, the annual event between the Amateur Athletic Association (AAA) and his alma mater Oxford University. Bannister was representing the AAA, wth Brasher and Chataway taking turns as pacers to help him make history.

At the crucial stage and with 275 yards to go, Bannister disrupted the relaxed rhythm he had set and moved into a different gear, going all out and faster and faster until he ended up running the mile in under four minutes, the first man in athletic history to do so. The historic event was being broadcast on BBC Radio, with the live commentary being rendered by the “Chariots of Fire” 1924 Olympic Games 100-metres gold medallist Harold Abrahams. When it was announced on the public address system that the time set was “3 minutes”, the 1,200-strong crowd roared, obscuring the remaining bit of “and 59.4 seconds”.

The four-minute mile had been cracked without fuss and feathers by a medico who turned up at the Iffley Road Track only after finishing his morning shift at the St Mary’s Hospital Medical School. None of the patients even realized that the young intern attending to them on his rounds that May morning was planning to create history later that afternoon. Among the handful of top athletes who were trying to crack the four-minute mile, Bannister did the least daily track time of 45 minutes. What made the difference was Bannister’s understanding of physiology and his realization that running consistent lap-times required less oxygen consumption than variable times. So he focused on running steady quarter-mile splits. He did intense interval training of running 10 laps with two-minute breaks in between and was able to reduce the average time for his quarter-mile splits from 63 to 59 seconds, thereby leaving him with a margin of four seconds to crack the four-minute mile.

There was also Bannister’s understanding of the mental aspect of running in a highly competitive race, which he expounded on in his book “The Four Minute Mile”. The top athlete was running not just against the clock but also against the competition. So at what stage did the runner disrupt his rhythm and go all out? It was, he analysed, a combination of both confidence and fear. Confidence entailed that, when you broke out, you were positive that you could maintain the burst of speed till the finish. Fear meant that you felt that, if you did not break out, you were afraid that the other runners would do so and leave you behind. Break out too early and there was a chance that you would not be able to maintain the burst of speed till the end–as happened to Milkha Singh in the finals of the mens’ 400-metres at the 1960 Rome Olympics.

And then after realizing what The New York Times rated as “one of man’s unachievable goals on May 6, 1954,” Bannister topped that just seven months later by doing something which would be considered unthinkable by contemporary 21st-century logic. He hung up his racing boots. In an address to the English Sports Writers Association on December 9, he said (in what the international magazine Sports Illustrated quipped was the perfect instance of a good speech ruining a dinner), “Now that I am taking up a hospital appointment, I shall have to give up international athletics. I shall not have sufficient time.”

Over to what Sports Illustrated said when it chose Bannister for its inaugural award of Sportsman of the Year in 1954: “The cast of characters was tremendous and, yet, when it came to picking the Sportsman of the Year, the compelling choice was the man who set himself an athlete’s severest challenge, the four-minute mile; who met the challenge superbly (in exchange for a couple of of inexpensive medals) and then turned to the next challenge, that of a strenuous profession–miler turned doctor Roger Bannister (18-hour working days as a houseman, on call all the time, and two days a week of casualty service, treating auto-accident victims or stitching up those injured in pub-brawls).” Sports Illustrated also announced that Bannister’s closest rival, the Australian John Landy, was also retiring at about the same time to concentrate on a career as a schoolteacher.

After retiring from the international athletics arena in December 1954, Bannister spent the rest of his life practising medicine in the field of neurology. Wikipedia tells us that his major contribution to academic medicine was in the field of autonomic failure, an area of neurology characterised by the loss of certain automatic responses of the nervous system. As Bannister once stated, “I’d rather be remembered for my work in neurology than my running. If you offered me the chance to make a great breakthrough in the study of the autonomic nerve system, I’d take that over the four-minute mile right away. I worked in medicine for 60 years. I ran for about eight.”.

He was the epitome of “the disappearing scholar-athlete ideal,” as highlighted in the 2016 documentary “Bannister: Everest on the Track”. The four-minute mile came at a time when Britain was desperately looking for something to erase the woes of World War Two. However, the broader message of “mens sana in corpore sano: (Latin for “a healthy mind in a healthy body”) is even more relevant today in the context of the raging pandemic. For, as the first chairman of the Sports Council (now known as Sport England), Bannister pioneered the cause of “Sports for All” by seeking central and local funding for the setting up of sports facilities all over the country.

He inspired generations, including the co-founder of Nike, Phil Knight, whose father took him to Vancouver to watch the highlight of the 1954 Commonwealth Games, the August 7 “Miracle Mile Race” between Bannister and Landy. Some 67 years later, Nike is the shoes and clothing sponsor for Emma Raducanu, the first qualifier to win the women’s singles title at the US Open and the first Britisher to do so since Virginia Wade in 1968. Former tennis Grand Slam (major tournament) winners are predicting great things for her style of attacking baseline tennis, based on consistently powerful groundstrokes and returns of service.

Boris Becker, who stunned Wmbledon in the summer of 1985 by being the youngest at that time to win the men’s singles championship, was all praise for “the new form of attacking tennis,” symbolised by the advent of 18-year-old Emma and 19-year-old Leylah Fernandes. Gone, Becker added, are the days of “I go into the rally and wait till the other one misses the ball”. Dominic Thiem, who won the US Open men’s singles in 2020, hailed Emma’s performance “as perhaps the greatest achievement in women’s sports and the single greatest breakthrough ever” while praising her technique and footwork. And the Wimbledon 2013 women’s singles champion Marion Bartoli said, “She moves really well but she is very aggressive as well. She comes inside the court. She tries to take the ball early. She is hitting enough winners,” Emma is a product of the British Lawn Tennis Association’s PSP (Pro Scholarship Programme) where a promising 16-year-old is given personalised coaching, medical services and wild-card entry into tournaments, the objective for a Type 1 player being that he or she reaches the top 100 in ATP/WTA singles rankings.within five years.

The most charming thing about Emma Raducanu was that she seemed blissfully unaware of the impact she was making at the 2021 US Open. Which was why millions of fans watched the smiling 18-year-old who seemed to come alive with the sheer joy of playing tennis in the midst of a pandemic. It was almost as if she was enjoying her summer holiday after completing her A-levels, scoring A-plus in maths and an A in economics, as expected from the daughter of two parents (father a Romanian, mother Chinese) both working in the international finance sector in London.

However, it seems unlikely that Emma will at this point of time immediately continue with her studies. The morning after she won the US Open, life changed for Emma. It’s almost as if Cinderella (of course, she was never that) has become Empress Emma in her own right, courtesy of a `magic ‘ tennis racket (sponsored by Wilson). There are articles galore in the international media, speculating on whether she will be the first billionaire sportswoman in endorsement history. Every market is open to her, not just the North American one (the US and Canada where she was born before migrating to the UK at the age of two and picking up a racket at five) but also the humongous Chinese market (courtesy her mom who also taught her Mandarin), and the British and European ones–she has learnt Romanian to communicate with her paternal grandmother in Bucharest. The TV commercials in India and South Asia and the Philippines are also in English, as in those parts of Africa which were once colonised by the British. There is even talk of launching a perfume-line in China. The girl who used to wash down her tennis-court wins with chocolate-flavoured yoghurt can now ask for the moon which could even serve as a prop for any nocturnal commercial.

The Bannister story is over. The Emma Raducanu story is just beginning and the most beautiful part of it is of her walking down a NewYork street after the completion of the tournament and beaming at a huge billboard showing her face. However, what she can learn from the scholar-athlete Bannister is that excellence need not be confined to just one field. That she can be more than a tennis billionaire even if she takes a break from academics for a few years to consolidate on her unique fairy-tale breakthrough in sports. She can always pick up the threads of a college education. The qualities of hard work and commitment which saw her do so spectacularly well at the US Open will open the door for excellence in academics.

The ancient Greek philosophers like Aristotle believed that a proper life for a human being was lived in the pursuit of excellence. Only such a life, they maintained,could bestow the happiness and fulfilment that everyone desired. Or, as Bannister (who passed away on March 3, 2018, some 20 days before his 89th birthday) once said, “We run, not because we think it is doing us good but because we enjoy it and cannot help ourselves. The more restricted our society and work become (as can and is happening during the pandemic), the more necessary it will be to find some outlet for the craving for freedom. No one can say, `You must not run faster than this or jump higher than that’. The human spirit is indomitable.”

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE