Exempting small companies from mandatory audit would result in furthering ease of doing business for MSMCs and reducing the compliance burden and costs on such enterprises. The audit requirement threshold exemption in tax laws of India also clearly points out the need for doing away with audit of MSMCs depending upon certain thresholds. NFRA

Accounting watchdog, National Financial Reporting Authority ( NFRA ), has issued a consultation paper on statutory audit and auditing standards for micro, small and medium companies (MSMCs). The regulator has sought comments from concerned stakeholders by November 10, 2021. It defined companies as MSMCs whose net worth is less than Rs 250 crore.The consultation paper was issued as the NFRA felt the need to revisit the requirements of compulsory statutory audit for all companies irrespective of size and/or public interest. The regulator stated it is essential that the regulatory environment is conducive to support, and not burden, the growth in business and economic activities of MSMCs.In its consultation paper, the NFRA discussed examples of other major economies of the world including the US, the UK, Japan, EU, Singapore, Australia, etc noting they require statutory audit for small companies only if some minimum criteria of public interest is satisfied.In India, income tax audit is not compulsory where the turnover is Rs 10 crore or less provided not more than 5% of the transactions are in cash.The regulator emphasised that a majority of MSMCs are essentially family-owned enterprises formed as companies for the sake of limited liability, or to get bank loans, bus route permits, mining licences, and the like, and they are effectively glorified proprietorships or partnerships. There is no public interest in foisting external audits on them, it said.NFRA said that it has done a preliminary analysis on the key financial parameters of the companies registered in India from their filings with the corporate affairs ministry and found that fees paid to auditors by a large majority of MSMCs are way below what an audit, when performed in compliance with the letter and spirit of the auditing standards would require.“There are a large number of companies (1,81,392 Companies, nearly 30.26%) that have reported nil payments to auditors (FY 2018-19). This perhaps could be data input error indicating lack of adequate accounting professionals with many of these companies,” the NFRA said in its consultation paper. Further, a large majority of companies (2,48,218 Companies accounting for 41.41%) have reported small amounts of payments to auditors i.e., below Rs 25,000. And of these companies, 40,708 have reported extremely small amounts of payments to auditors i.e., below Rs 5,000, the regulator pointed out.