The presence of an independent accounting watchdog National Financial Reporting Authority , in the last three years has made the audit profession cautious but issues of audit quality and auditors independence continue unabated, India Inc top auditors said.“Setting up an independent accounting regulator (October 2018) was the right way to go. The change has started but whether the objective of enhancing auditor independence or improving audit quality has been significantly achieved I am not sure,” a top auditor at a multinational firm told ETCFO, requesting anonymity. “Perhaps we need to cover much more distance to reach such a conclusion,” he said.The NFRA , according to him, seems to have started on a “wrong footing”, taking rather an “adversarial approach”. The regulator for instance seems to have interpreted “management services” in a few of its audit quality review reports “very widely” from what it has been interpreted in the past, the auditor pointed out. (Management services is among one of the services included under Section 144 of the Companies Act, 2013 which is prohibited for the auditors to protect auditors independence). “Just because the NFRA is a new kid on the block, it can’t interpret the law entirely differently. Management services do not cover every service offered by the auditor to the management. If that is the case, then make the law explicitly clear, and the audit firms will abide by that,” he stated.Another auditor at a top firm, who did not wish to be identified, echoed similar thoughts and propositions. While he admitted the new regulator has brought in caution among auditors and that now they are questioning the management more than ever before, but the needle on the audit quality, he said, has not moved much adding the profession continues to struggle with the quality talent. Also, the expectation mismatch between auditors and regulators continues to exist, he said. “If a fraud occurs even now, the auditors will hide themselves behind the auditing standards , and the regulator will expect the auditors to do much more,” he said.The first auditor cited said the NFRA’s focus going forward should be on the “remedial measures” rather than “adversarial ones”. The watchdog should continuously point out deficiencies to the auditors and state its expectations very clearly in terms of what it wants, he said.The second auditor agreed, adding that he already feels the NFRA’s focus is starting to shift towards the remedial steps. “The NFRA’s Technical Advisory Committee Report (March 2021) talks about a settlement mechanism. It is one of the fine recommendations among many, the panel has made,” he said. He also felt the NFRA should appoint more “experienced people” in the audit quality review function, especially ones who have an understanding of the complex business environment. Also, the focus besides the audit quality reviews, should also be on the financial reporting quality reviews, he said. On bridging the expectation gap between the regulator and the auditor, he suggested, the auditing standards should be upgraded.Both the auditors suggested that the overall staffing at the NFRA should also pick up as the current strength of about 8-12 people won’t be enough to handle the amount of expected work from the regulator.NFRA completes three years of its existence on September 30, 2021. The regulator came into effect in October 2018 amid a series of corporate and accounting scams including Rs 15,000 crore fraud at the second-largest state lender, PNB and as the previous regulator the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) was seen as ineffective to take action against its own members. The NFRA was set up as an independent regulator on the lines with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the US, and the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in the UK.The NFRA was constituted with Chairman Rangachari Sridharan (appointed for three-years) and full-time member Prasanjit Mukherjee. Its Chair is due to retire on September 30, 2021. NFRA has so far conducted a total of three audit quality reviews (AQR) and one financial reporting quality review (FRQR).