Forward-thinking CFOs and their teams are using scenario planning to eliminate some of the guesswork and be more prepared in times of uncertainty. This type of short-range planning allows finance to run faster, more frequent scenarios to examine potential impacts on the business three, six, and 12 months out.As the pandemic has shown, many situations lack historical data for teams to refer to when creating plans, making swift decisions and accurate forecasting is difficult. By identifying potential shifts, scenario planning helps companies minimise risk, stay agile, and maintain business continuity— so they’re better prepared for what’s ahead.Scenario planning requires collecting quantitative and qualitative data to develop key assumptions. Combine information from both internal and external sources. CFOs should look at various authentic sources for general data about the macroeconomics of past pandemics or recessions. They should also examine national census and industry association records when compiling external data. The CFO can take the lead in determining which inputs are most relevant and predictive for the business, with the finance team performing a regression analysis to see which metrics show correlation and determine which represent actual causation.To project or forecast the potential financial impact of scenarios, the first step that CFOs must spot is the economic indicators that impact the business. Two of the more challenging parts of this process are defining the future states of the economic indicators and obtaining historical data extracts. Another challenging aspect can sometimes come as somewhat of a surprise— getting historical data from a company’s systems. Taxonomy and system changes throughout the years, as well as data quality issues, can often complicate a seemingly simple task.After the appropriate data have been obtained, an econometric model can be developed to establish a relationship between historic performance and economic indicators. Multiple regression is a common technique used to make predictions and projections. In essence, revenue is projected by applying the historical relationship to the state of the indicators in the scenarios. Before building an econometric model, various aspects of both the data and business that could impact results should be considered. Common considerations include seasonality, mergers, performance lags, business diversity, and one-time events.Once the CFO has identified relevant data inputs, the inputs can be run through various forecasting models, including decision trees and Monte Carlo simulations, to determine how changes in the data under different scenarios will affect the business. This process can incorporate information from different functions across the business, but there may be a need for the CFO to be empowered to challenge the assumptions going into the modelsOnce you have detailed the scenarios and their financial impacts, you can develop appropriate action portfolios dedicated to each scenario. No action portfolio will be defined for scenarios deemed extremely unlikely. In order to identify suitable actions, it is helpful to rely on an established, tested catalogue.Proper scenario planning can help companies gain better transparency into the risks they face in different situations. The CFO can then use the various scenarios to help guide decisions around the company’s cost structure, working capital policies, dividend policy, backup sources of liquidity, and other near-term measures.Planning for the true worst-case scenarios can also help guide whether long-term investment needs to be made into a more flexible supply chain, different manufacturing facilities in different geographies, or other measures. For example, if a company forecasts that a key supplier might fail in X% of scenarios, the company could increase inventory levels while it finds more suppliers—or could even acquire the key supplier.One lasting project the CFO can lead is to use information and lessons learned from the current crisis to develop a crisis playbook . This playbook may include specific actions to take in response to specific shocks to the business. These can be demand shocks, supply shocks, or both, and may impact specific geographies or the entire ecosystem. For example, an X% drop in sales may trigger a drawdown of funds under a line of credit, whereas a 2x decline in sales may further trigger the suspension of a dividend and the furlough of certain workers. The crisis playbook can also clearly define the crisis response team and its roles and responsibilities, as preparedness is the key to a quick response.