Amarjit Chopra, past president at the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and also a part-time member at the audit watchdog National Financial Reporting Authority is of the view that the ICAI and the NFRA must work in tandem to improve public trust in the markets, and that a confrontationist approach by either of the two regulators won’t auger well for the audit profession.



Chopra’s remarks came in the backdrop of the ICAI-NFRA’s recent clash where the issue revolves around a report by the NFRA’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on improving the authority’s engagement with its stakeholders. The TAC had submitted its first report in March 2021 based on which the NFRA subsequently issued a consultation paper on June 8. The CA Institute reportedly dismissed this report. Chopra is himself against this TAC’s report, saying it appears to him as if the committee has overstepped its role in making certain observations. He argued that any paper having “such wide ramifications” should have been discussed in the NFRA’s Board before being put up in the public domain. The functioning of the board needs to get better by broad basing the discussions amongst all the members of NFRA, he stated. Edited Excerpts:

Amarjit Chopra: I am watching these developments with concern. These kinds of discussions in the public domain by any of the parties are not in good taste. Needless to say that we need to strengthen the regulation in accounting and auditing. For this it is imperative that both the ICAI and the NFRA understand each other’s role and complement each other’s efforts rather than treating the two parties as competitors to regulate the profession. To me TAC appears to have overstepped its role in making certain observations.There is a need for better coordination between the Institute and the NFRA, and a confrontationist approach by either of the two won’t auger well for the audit quality. So, the Institute and the NFRA should sit together and sort the issue out. There should be no credibility gap whatsoever. Teething problems are bound to come whenever organisations are built. I am a born optimist and quite hopeful that this will be resolved sooner rather than later.Amarjit Chopra: Policy matters including constitution of TAC and its terms of reference should have been approved in the NFRA’s Board. Also any paper having such wide ramifications should have been discussed in the NFRA’s Board before being put up in public domain. The role of the Board should not be limited to framing/ reviewing auditing and accounting standards. Board definitely needs to be party to any strategic decisions.Amarjit Chopra: The NFRA is an independent regulator today and is being headed by a top bureaucrat. Then there are representatives from CAG, MCA, SEBI and RBI. But the independence of the authority should not mean the Board can’t have Chartered Accountants. To my mind Chartered accountants are certainly a must in the Board as they bring professional expertise on the table and enhance the overall quality of the debate. Don’t Medical Council and Bar have doctors and lawyers respectively on their Boards. Also Public Company Accounting Oversight Watchdog (PCAOB), the independent audit regulator in the US, has Certified Public Accountants. We need to appreciate that you need professionals from a concerned field for the profession to be regulated objectively and efficiently.Amarjit Chopra: The point is simple that the policy decisions must come from the Board, and that all its members, part-time or full-time, CAs or non-CAs, should be encouraged to participate in every such matter. There exist part-time members on the Board of the SEBI and the RBI. And the Board takes the policy decisions there. Even in the companies it is the Boards constituting executive, non-executive and independent directors take the decisions. Committees constituted by Boards can recommend certain matters to Boards for consideration. Recommendations of Committees may or may not be accepted by Boards.As per Section 132 of Companies Act , the NFRA may have 15 members. And if at present one feels the ratio to be disproportionate, four more members can be appointed at the NFRA as per its Constitution, that will take the number to 15, and that would reduce the number of CAs to one third only.Also there is a need to understand that three members from the ICAI namely President ICAI, Chairman Accounting Standards Board (ASB) and Chairman Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AASB), are ex officio members with a logic. The ICAI has been entrusted with the task of drafting Accounting and Auditing Standards and to put up the same to the NFRA for approval and onward recommendation to the government for notification. Presence of ASB and AASB Chairman is required to discuss the same. Presence of President of the ICAI adds value from the perspective of giving Council’s view point on various issues.I am not for any part-time member to be a part of any investigative or enforcement team. But surely enough I feel strongly for their valuable contribution in strategic matters.Amarjit Chopra: Yes….Amarjit Chopra: I don’t think there should be any distinction made between the practising chartered accountant and non-practising one. Practising CAs can always recuse themselves when they are conflicted just like judges do whenever they are in such a position. So, I don’t understand why we are making a mountain of a molehill. Bureaucrats, bankers etc are being appointed on the boards of the companies that they have dealt with during the course of their active service after a period of one year from the date of their retirement. Similar provisions of a member having retired from a firm or the ICAI’s position could be laid down before his name being considered as a part time member of the NFRA.In this entire debate, what’s more important is that irrespective of the profession one comes from, one should be able to appoint members who have the courage of conviction, can stand up to any test of scrutiny and are independent in their thought processes.Amarjit Chopra: The NFRA has certainly made its presence felt. It has created awareness among auditors, auditees and the entire ecosystem. There is no doubt about this. Only thing is that the functioning of the board needs to get better by broad basing the discussions amongst all the members of NFRA.Amarjit Chopra: The NFRA should now undertake audit quality reviews of may be of auditors of top 100 listed companies and let their auditors know of their deficiencies in conduct of such audits. In case the reviews bring out certain undesirable practices the cases may be referred for further inquiry. Based upon the reviews already conducted by it, The NFRA needs to create awareness amongst CA firms as to what are its expectations from the CA fraternity. In this regard, it must hold along with the Institute and conduct reach out programmes. This will help improve the public trust in the system and markets.Amarjit Chopra: The government needs to appoint the remaining members of the NFRA at the earliest to dispel the impression that the ratio of the CAs in the NFRA to that of non-CAs is disproportionate. Also, it needs to lay down certain code on how frequently the NFRA should meet, guidelines with regard to the conduct of the meetings, matters to be discussed in NFRA and its Committees etc etc.Amarjit Chopra: The ICAI would do well to appreciate that the NFRA is a reality now and is there to stay. The ICAI and the NFRA need to come closer and thrash out thorny issues. Both the ICAI and the NFRA have a vital role to improve the quality of audit .Both would do well to come to an understanding with regard to cases to be handled by each one of them. This is in the best interests of the profession and above all the country. Let us hope that the two sides would appreciate each other’s role and to build a strong accounting profession in the country.