It was clear at that point in time itself that the borrowing will be repaid through extending the cess collection. Now, the government came with the calculations that the cess collection will happen till March 2026, which means businesses will have to bear the costs….They would remain on tenterhooks since a few states seem to be asking for compensation beyond the stipulated timeline of June 2022, and if the compensation is extended that period, then the cess collection can exceed March 2026. the expert said.

I don’t think the Centre would be inclined to compensate the states beyond June 2022. Clearly, the FM is indicating she is in no mood to extend it (compensation). An expert on the GST matters said requesting anonymity.

The GST compensation row between the Centre and the states continues to keep the makers of the sin and luxury goods on the tenterhooks. These businesses see an “adverse impact” of the GST Council’s recent decision to increase the compensation cess period to March 2026 from June 2022. They fear it will lead to higher costs and affect affordability. And with the states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal reportedly demanding extension in the GST compensation regime, it adds to their worries since if that happens that could mean that cess period may be further increased beyond what is now March 2026.Sin goods include cigarettes, fast foods, aerated drinks etc, while luxury goods include premium cars, high-end motorcycles etc. Most of these goods fall in the highest 28 per cent GST slab, and on top of that rate, cess is levied.“The extension of the period of compensation cess will adversely affect the affordability and sales of aerated drinks as they are an elastic category. The inherent perception of these drinks being treated as a luxury or sin good should be re-looked at, broadly. This will help drive more investment from business in the non-alcoholic ready to drink portfolio of products,” a CFO at a leading soft drinks maker, told ETCFO requesting anonymity. These “distortions” do not create a level playing field amongst FMCG products impacting the ability to provide these at more affordable prices to consumers, the finance executive said.Abhishek Jain, a tax expert at EY India said that the makers of goods attracting cess were already worried when the borrowing was first announced by the Centre last year to compensate the states for higher shortfall seen due to pandemic.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in July, had assured the states the GST council will hold a “special session” to discuss only the compensated related issue. The compensation issue was on the agenda of the latest 45th GST Council meeting, but there were other matters too including a correction in inverted duty structures for some sectors as well as the inclusion of petroleum products under the GST gambit etc.In the press briefing after the meeting, when asked by reporters if the GST Council will extend the compensation period beyond June 2022, Sitharaman did not answer explicitly and instead reiterated two points. First, the extension in the cess collection will be purely used for repaying back-to-back arrangements of loans that the Centre has taken during the pandemic, and second, the Constitution allows compensation to the states due to the implementation of the GST law for a period of five years which ends June 2022.To the expert, Parag Mehta, Partner, NA Shah Associates, the Centre and the states should settle the compensation row in the next 3-6 months and not leave it till the end. He emphasised that four years of the regulation have already gone by, and clarity on the further extension needs to emerge either way.“The states should put in the deficits before the Centre, and then the Centre should take a call on whether to extend the compensation period or whether tightening the compliance will ensure there is a proper collection in all the states and there is enough cess available to meet the revenue shortfall,” he explained.The matter, according to this expert, should be put to rest by March 2022 when the states and the Centre will have the full-year budget numbers also to look at. In case it is decided to extend the compensation beyond June 2022, then two things must happen, he said. First, the time period must be flexible. This means if the Centre decides to extend the period by another three years and during the period, it is seen that the states’ revenue is faring higher-than-estimated, then the period can be curtailed to two years or less and likewise if the revenue is faring lower-than-expected, then the period can be extended further by a year.Second, the compounded tax growth rate of 14 per cent, based on which the compensation calculations are done for the current five-year period between July 2017 and June 2022, should come for a review. “But the extension in the compensation if it happens should not become a permanent phenomenon,” he cautioned.Under the regulation, the Centre is required to compensate states for any shortfall gap in their revenue arising on account of the GST adoption for a period of five years.This is factoring in a 14 per cent compounded growth rate in the collections. The compensation is to be borne out from the cess levied on sin and luxury goods. Pandemic affected cess collections last year as well is seen impacting cess collections this year too.The Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore in FY21 and plans to borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore in FY22 to compensate the states’ revenue shortfall. The extension in cess collection to March 2026 from June 2022 earlier is expected to repay borrowings of these last two years.