Good thing is that this situation is not unique to India. In the UK, for instance, usurping the powers of ICAEW, a self-regulatory body for the accounting profession in the UK, a new authority namely Financial Reporting Council was set up as an independent authority. After a debate for more than 3 years it is now slated to be replaced by a new authority. .

Serving public interest should be central to the sectoral objective of the stakeholders and the outcome of shared regulation is best achieved with mutually respectful and collaborative relationships. .

Suitable checks and balances can be built in the governance structure and the relevant rules of NFRA in order to ensure that microscopic view of professional interest or interest of other stakeholder does not over shadow the public interest. In any case, the majority of the members of the authority represents various regulators and the government. .

It is often said that those in the profession are oblivious of public interest, and those who make regulations and enforce them are oblivious of the profession. The challenge is to find an appropriate mechanism to bridge this huge divide. .

, and a noted governance voice on financial reporting and financial matters discussed in an interview with ETCFO the recent stand-off between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ( ICAI ) and the National Financial Reporting Authority NFRA ). The bone of contention in the fight is the watchdog’s Technical Advisory Committee report on improving stakeholders’ engagement. The ICAI is said to be unhappy about the report and has reportedly dismissed it.Haldia said shared regulation is must for effective oversight of the audit profession, emphasizing the Companies Act, 2013 should provide more clarity into the roles and responsibilities of both NFRA and ICAI. Edited Excerpts.Countries worldover have been debating whether they have an ‘optimal ‘framework for regulation of the accountancy profession nationally and globally. The right optimal framework, however, remains in illusion. For instance in India despite a series of legal, structural and systemic reforms since nineteen nineties, in response to major corporate failures, the optimal regulatory model remains a tryst and is riddled with conflicts and contradiction.The recent report of Technical Advisory Committee of NFRA , and debate on whether or not and to what extent part-time members of NFRA be allowed to participate in its functioning or reported discord on the nature and extent of interface between NFRA and ICAI, another statutory body for accounting profession, should be seen in that perspective.In my understanding, section 132 of the Companies Act, 2013 originally provided for shared regulation with representatives of the profession, various regulators, users and the government, as members of the National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA). NFRA as a body was envisaged with overall responsibility to discharge entrusted functions with suitable delegation made in favour of the executive committee.This seemed to have been restricted by an amendment in 2019 to provide for setting up the Divisions to facilitate the functioning of the Authority. The Rules framed there under further empowered the chairman and/or the whole-time member/s to take final decision through the divisions, on matters relating to monitoring, enforcement and disciplining.The new framework not only effectively restricted the role of NFRA (as a governing body) and its part-time members to recommending accounting and auditing standards to the government but also seemingly lacks consistency and congruence with intent of the companies act.Admittedly, part-time members may often present and press views of the stakeholders they represent. But their participation at the governing level in the authority is important to make shared regulation dynamic, efficient, and effective.In fact, whole-time members would greatly be benefitted by a cross section of the views, current developments, issues and challenges, and, importantly, prevailing ground reality.Thus in my view total exclusion of part-time members, as reported ,from certain functions of the authority is not as per the intent of the companies act and is not congenial to effective regulation. Part-time members including those representing ICAI which is a statutory body and those as experts are also expected to act in the public interest. If they do not do so they would be eroding the confidence of stakeholders in the profession.Yes. An objective and holistic review of section 132 of the Companies Act 2013 and relevant rules thereunder is needed to bring out clarity in the role and responsibilities of NFRA and ICAI, their inter-se interface, and on governance of NFRA based on principles of shared regulations. Sooner it is done better it would be in the interest of regulation and development of a profession which is vital in the public interest.As stated, the accounting profession is in public service and for safeguarding public interest. This also implies that the profession may not be able to service public interest unless it is well developed and suitably strengthened for delivering high quality performance.Regulation of the profession has to be seen in a larger perspective focusing on all the links involved in the value chain for high quality performance rather than focusing only on one of the links i.e. monitoring and taking punitive measures.Ongoing dialogue and cooperation at various levels between the profession, users and the regulators is thus essential to ensure that regulatory framework is holistic, suitably rigorous, and proportionate. Appropriate balance is needed between self-regulation by the profession, self-regulation with public oversight and accountability, and external regulation—a balance that needs to be struck in India considering the stage of development of the profession, legal status of ICAI, and its functioning and international positioning.Shared regulation is key to effective regulation of the accounting profession. The optimal regulatory model is critical for ensuring a well-functioning accountancy profession which is responsible for providing high-quality financial information generating investor’s confidence.