The co-founder tag helps see finance from a more long-term point of view and combines analytical mind with empathy. But having said so, this does not mean CFOs lack empathy or see short-term only. It’s just that by its very nature, the role of the CFO is more operational in nature. .

Second learning would be to not underestimate opportunities ever. A large part of decision making rests on what one foresees as mentioned. When we started in 2015, we never thought we would come this far. We never imagined we would become a billion dollar company. But now we have a better vision and don’t underestimate opportunities! .

Used cars unicorn Cars24 cofounder CFO Ruchit Agarwal discussed with ETCFO how co-founder tag helps him in his finance role. He also shared his key entrepreneurial learnings so far as well as the experience of the unicorn CFO. Below are edited excerpts:Ruchit Agarwal: The Co-founder tag weds analytical finance mind with emotional mind. It helps finance folks to see things from a slightly longer-term perspective. It helps them strike a perfect balance in meeting short-term and long-term goals.One example that comes to my mind is from the pandemic period only. During the last year when the nationwide lockdown had happened, many companies had resorted to layoffs and salary cuts to control their costs in the backdrop of little revenue.During that time, my CFO mind was naturally inclined to think of such steps too for cost was a drag on the business but my co-founder mind held me back and instead asked me to look at the things from a broader long-term perspective. It made me realise how to build the culture for the long-term. I was able to imagine the kind of impact the layoffs or salary cuts would have had on especially people with lower incomes. That was the time the employees I realised needed me the most. Laying them off would have been a very short-term view but it was decided not to resort to layoffs or even salary cuts. Voluntary salary reductions happened, but that too were compensated after the situation had improved. Our employees paid us back tenfold in terms of productivity, and that was one of the reasons the company grew much faster than expected after the 1st wave. During the second wave, our employees already knew that we were going to stand by their side, and not going to resort to layoffs as such.The finance executive simply has to ensure that the payments are in place, books are balanced and the audit is carried smoothly, and things like that.Ruchit Agarwal: The billion dollar mark was never a milestone. I would like to believe that picture abhi bahut baaki hai. The unicorn status does not per say change my life. I strongly feel there is a huge macro opportunity, and in that backdrop the one billion dollar (valuation) seems a pie. I am excited to witness the next phase of growth, and not be bogged down or become complacent because of the unicorn tag.Ruchit Agarwal: The first would be about the importance of developing foresight and being ready to guide the company in uncertain times. If someone had told me there would be demonization, goods and services tax roll out, slowdown in the cars industry, and coronavirus in the times to come, I would have never entered into this business. But despite so many macro headwinds, we managed to grow. So the learning is we have to be ready for any event and have to keep working on developing our foresight.Third learning would be about the importance of the team and its impact as a whole in growing business. I wish I was more mature in understanding and building a great culture for our employees then. During the years, I developed a softer side and learnt the value of empathy, as well as the value of building and retaining a great culture. The last learning is related to the third. It is the realisation that customer matters and is the single biggest driving factor in growth.