Until recently, the insurance industry has always found digitization to be a difficult process since it contains manual processes, workflows and stringent regulations. However, as the world changes and embraces mobility, insurers have to tag along for digital innovation.



Rikhil Shah, CFO at SBI General Insurance discussed in an interview with ETCFO about how the company is leveraging digital information opportunities and using the data points to understand the digital customer and meet their evolving requirements. He sheds light on how digitized processes and usage of RPA, AI/ machine are increasingly becoming necessities rather than being options. Edited Excerpts:

Rikhil Shah: Digital transformation in finance is to achieve operational excellence and cost efficiency where end-to-end process digitisation keeps the costs lower. Technology is going to be the key that drives organisational growth. We are going all out with the use of technology for end-to-end operations, big data analytics, AI and ML.We are redefining our journey by deploying business intelligence (BI) and analytics that offers data visualization, data discovery with data governance and predictive planning. With the use of machine learning (ML) models, we are eliminating low-value activities to minimize expenses and enhance efficiencies.Rikhil Shah: Our user-friendly design of MIS report has proven to be quite valuable for organizational performance analysis. We have also implemented an ‘efficient cost allocation initiative’ for better management of expenses.To ensure business continuity, we have enabled online platforms for seamless and smooth closure of Financial Year and Annual Audit amidst the pandemic situation. We have automated various processes like the Claims Payment Automation Project, Automation of MIS Reports and many more. We will continue to focus on further increasing automation through AI/ML.Rikhil Shah: Most of the initiatives have resulted in benefits beyond expectation. Digital transformation can achieve significant competitive advantages by driving operational agility to respond to changing customer needs.Our digitization efforts and automation of processes along with continuous advancement on AI and ML has ensured lower manual intervention, reduced duplication of efforts, ease of access and data maintenance and improved Turn-around Time. This has improved our operational and cost efficiency along with enhanced customer experience.Rikhil Shah: Balance between achieving operational excellence and cost efficiency is the most important undergoing digital transformation. Few investments might not seem as beneficial in the short term, however, the operational benefit derived out of such investments during the company's span makes it cost-effective and important.To maintain the financial health of the company, the focus should be on generating revenue growth without impairing profitability.Rikhil Shah: As the company grows bigger, data management is one of the key areas which requires efficient management. If done well, it can provide several advantages, including enhanced efficiency, reduced errors, accelerated processes, optimized workforce allocation and tangible financial gains.We will continue to strengthen our digital processes and make use of big data, AI, ML and technology to align and integrate data and achieve end-to-end operational efficiency.Rikhil Shah: It might be slightly hasty to claim the absolute impact of these transformations on business but in terms of policies, some standard policies or products like Shagun, SBI General’s one of a kind product did well through digital processes. These products are easy to understand and may not require as much advice as other products so people can access them online.Products that are made available through InsurTech partnerships have contributed to business. Renewals through digital modes especially saw a spike during COVID induced lockdowns.Rikhil Shah: As per a report, global funding has grown by 3 times in InsurTech from 2016 to 2020 and Asia is the emerging location. InsurTech movement started around 5-6 years back and is now burgeoning. The discussion has shifted a lot to digital distribution partners and most general insurance companies are partnering with various digital aggregators / service providers to increase reach at lower costs, faster results and domain expertise. This is providing a push to innovative products and models with overall reduction in operational cost.Rikhil Shah: Phygital as a concept shaped up during the pandemic. Offline channels like bancassurance were required to adopt a mix of digital and traditional for selling and servicing customers.While organizations had already gone digital, the pandemic further propelled it. General Insurance as a segment is distinctive where both the worlds can survive together.