Subodh Garg, Chief Finance Officer at e-commerce logistics aggregator, Pickrr, wants the government to provide better clarity on the new e-commerce guidelines. The recent amendments cannot be deployed in a hasty manner, and the government should give companies enough time to effect the changes, he said in an interview with ETCFO.



On June 21, the government announced new e-commerce rules which limit flash sales and bar misleading advertisements, among others with an aim to protect consumers.



In the interaction, the CFO also discussed the company’s preparedness towards the Covid third wave, as well as shared his festive quarter and full-year growth prospects. Pickrr is looking at a 3.5-4x growth in FY22, and expects to reach a revenue target of Rs 400-450 crore by the end of this fiscal year, the CFO said. Pickrr is an e-commerce logistics aggregator, founded in 2015, and Gurugram headquartered. Edited excerpts.



If the Covid situation takes a turn for the worse and lockdown restrictions are imposed again, our platform will send movement or delivery restriction notifications to the sellers in real-time so that they can disable shipments in the affected regions. It will help sellers save on their logistics costs. .

Moreover, we need better clarity around the new e-commerce guidelines that concern the logistics players. The recent amendments, though aimed at bringing progressive changes across all segments of e-commerce and the allied sectors, cannot be deployed in a hasty manner. The government should give companies enough time to effect the changes. .

Subodh Garg: On the operational side, we have built and deployed a robust employee management system to enable seamless remote collaboration between teams and various stakeholders while ensuring maximum productivity.We have further ensured that all our employees are fully vaccinated and have access to the right medical support if/when required. While we haven't received any word from the government yet, our team has updated Pickrr’s core tech stack to give real-time Covid-related updates to our sellers.Subodh Garg: We have adopted a multi-faceted strategy to cater to the festive demand. First, we are hiring talent across all spheres and levels to expand our team of logistics experts. While the tech team has been our key focus, we are also recruiting field-level professionals to facilitate seamless provision of services at the bottom line.Second, we have updated our tech stack to ensure sellers get a smooth experience while executing their bulk orders. With Pickrr's integrated dashboard, sellers can manage thousands of orders with a single click. We have also launched a mobile application to help e-commerce companies and D2C brands further streamline their operations, gain direct access to customer data, and get detailed analysis of orders.Third, Pickrr’s intelligent e-commerce fulfilment/warehousing solution Pickrr Plus is designed to aid sellers in delivering their customers’ orders within 1-2 days. We have set up four warehouses across India, and through Pickrr Plus, sellers can gain direct access to our storage solutions without making any upfront investment.Subodh Garg: In terms of business revenue, we are looking at a 3.5-4X growth in FY22. We also expect to reach a revenue target of Rs 400-450 crore by the end of this fiscal year. Additionally, we will continue to strengthen our fulfilment service by setting up new warehouses across the country.Subodh Garg: Two of the main challenges we are facing at present are volatility in fuel prices and concerns around the Covid third wave. The skyrocketing fuel prices are impacting our revenue margins as we are scrambling to keep our delivery costs low. The looming threat of another wave of the pandemic, on the other hand, has made us take a cautious approach to our otherwise aggressive growth plans.Subodh Garg: There is no doubt that the Indian government has introduced several initiatives in favour of logistics and supply chain companies in the country, we expect a few changes in the existing regulations which will further enable ease of operations.