There are two parts to these waves; first being what is regulatory available and allowed; secondly is our ability to respond. We have stepped up several programmes internally. Just to give you an example, we have reconfigured some of our network planning tools. So, we can actually give higher availability with a lesser fleet. .

We believe the festive season led demand and customer behaviours will lead to the development of new capabilities, new service offerings and thereby new markets for logistics players. .

We are looking to grow our warehousing and solutions business differentially. We see demand growing not only in Tier 1 cities but spreading to Tier 2 and 3 cities already. Customers are looking to contract a 3PL service provider who can offer a pan India footprint coupled with distribution capabilities. We intend to commission about 4 mn sq. ft. of ‘Built-To-Suit’ warehousing capacity at strategic locations in the next four quarters. .

discussed with ETCFO the company’s plans to deal with the feared third wave as well as shared his festive quarter outlook and key risks to growth.Mahindra Logistics clocked consolidated revenues of Rs 3,263 crore in 2020-21. The company aims to reach Rs 10,000 crore revenue by FY26.Third wave fears exist among corporations even as business recovery is underway. India had witnessed a lethal second wave during April-May 2021 which led to fresh pandemic disruptions. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has stressed vaccination is key for third-wave prevention. Daily new cases remain below 50,000 for more than 75 days. Edited excerpts from the Mahindra Logistics CFO’s interaction:We will probably see third wave impact, but with the higher level of preparedness across the country, the impact we are hoping will not be as widespread or as limiting as the second wave was.Similarly, we have redesigned many of our operating processes and warehouses to drive productivity up, to offset the lower availability of manpower. So we have done those kinds of things, which we think will help us, will put us in a better position to fulfil demand, even if we have more volatility in our operations.However, what we cannot fully mitigate is the broader set of regulatory actions. So if the country goes into a large lockdown as a whole, we cannot really mitigate that impact and that’s something that isn’t in our direct control. So, from a business mix perspective, we are trying to diversify the mix and we are putting more focus on India’s cross border logistics, which is maximum movement, which we think, even if a third wave happens, will be a bit more mitigated by any means.Since there are no silver bullets in a situation like this, what we can and what we are focusing on is remodelling our business for internal disruptions and then kind of trying to be agile to respond to different categories of demand.Given the context above of a broad recovery from the second quarter onwards, we are fairly confident that the recovery would be strong. For us, what is important is the focus on non-manufacturing sectors; consumption-driven sectors like e-commerce, FMCG or durables.So as the consumer spends come back to normalcy, we can see that it is creating an accelerated demand pattern for us. As lockdowns have eased, we have seen a surge in demand both in terms of physical distribution networks as well as online marketplaces.Festive season led demand is important for us as it increases the demand for warehousing and distribution. During the festive season, we are typically able to cater to increases in demand by offering flex solutions. We have also developed and expanded our presence in groceries and essential products and also launched fulfilment centers for these segments.Mahindra logistics and for that matter logistics as an industry is linked to the growth of the macro economy. Therefore the external challenges in terms of a potential third wave which could lead to a slowdown of manufacturing and consumption sectors would be a risk to growth.The second risk would be in context to ongoing pandemic where the feared third or subsequent waves disrupt normalcy in a significant way. We also believe that we have developed a significant experience to deal with external challenges and developed key skill sets to mould ourselves to deal with the evolving business scenario in the country.Our recent major addition was more than 7.5 lakh sq. ft area of ‘Built-To-Suit’ warehousing capacity to our existing locations in Hyderabad and Chennai. As of Q1 FY22, we currently have our warehousing capacity of 18.1 million square feet.The new facilities are developed to sustainable standards and allow us to provide flexible and scalable fulfilment and integrated distribution solutions.Phase 1 of these sites are focusing on integrated solutions for e-commerce, consumer and engineering industries. With the launch of these warehouses, we look forward to continuing business growth from existing as well as potential customers from all regions. We have also deepened our focus by launching new solutions like returns processing, flex sort centres and integrated distribution services for our clients.Increasing the revenue quality towards high growth verticals, better margin warehousing and Value added services along with better optimization of solutions and assets are key levers of profitability enhancement.Our vision is to achieve Rs 10,000-cr revenue by FY26 which defines our aspiration rather than a target. Broadly, the levers to this vision are many. We believe that the macro environment will be far more favourable and with aid more than double-digit growth in the logistics sector.Also, auto correction would happen and will get back to its secular growth rate. Service lines are also growing in the areas where we are not strong/underserved like Express Logistics, Freight Forwarding, last-mile delivery etc. Integration of Solutions/services and providing customized solutions to customers will be another growth lever.The needle is moving the direction as we had envisaged, we have already witnessed strong double-digit growth in our Express Logistics, freight forwarding and Last mile distribution.