I think from a leadership perspective, creating an environment for learning, transparency that will help freshers in their career lifecycle to grow and keep them excited is important. And leadership needs to provide a safe, growing learning environment. .

So, I am comfortable rolling up my sleeves, coming in around a T-shirt, jeans and a flip flop sitting with them in a conference room, instead of a boardroom with a solid suit and expecting them to be dressed similarly. It is important as the finance chief to have an appreciation and communicate what they desire and what will make it work. .

In an interview with the Bangalore-based IT services firm,, ETCFO explores how his leadership style shaped up while working with freshers and young professionals in the finance functions.He also emphasises that young professionals need a program that allows them to align their interests with the opportunities available. The edited excerpts.Manish Dugar: This is the year of execution: The companies that are doing transformation work are seeing growth and demand, however, we need to work hard to deliver value. But at the same time, given the supply constraints, due to Covid-19 or the cost of hiring, this is also going to be the year of execution.So how do you deliver good quality - define the cost so that you can deliver good P/L despite all the other investments that are needed is probably something that CFOs working closely with the business can make it happen.Manish Dugar: This is a mature industry. I have been in this business for 25 years and have seen a whole cycle. You typically have a programme wherein you induct new talent, they go to different parts of the business, pick up different skills. So, eventually, they understand what they need to do and at the same time, they have a sneak peek into what options are available -- allowing them to align their interests with opportunities available.So, as long as you have this whole engine going, like a graduating school, wherein they are learning over a period of time, and they are excited about what they are doing, you can make sure that continuous progress of people at different levels is happening.Then you have tenured people, who see a long term career with the company, they will be the pillars of the business, some ready to take on larger roles and responsibilities, whereas, some feel they need to move on.Manish Dugar: It has changed significantly. After working with Wipro for 11 years, I moved to a startup for nine years, and that experience of working with young people completely changed my perspective.Now, managing my current role with much younger people, understanding their needs, desires is possible for me. I come from a different era -- where it used to be an employers market, and now is an era when it is an employee-driven market. Therefore, it is now about how the leader excites them and give them reasons on how important the work is for them. It wouldn't have been possible unless I had seen that other part of the world as well.Manish Dugar: When you start a career it is extremely hard to predict what life has in store. However, there are two types of paths one could take and there is no right or wrong, while it all depends on what an individual desires.One will give you safety, and stability, probably a little less exciting life where you are good at what you are doing, enjoying it but without experimenting much. The alternative part is where one keeps taking on new challenges, you keep challenging your own limits. But that comes with a bit of ambiguity and risk.And following these paths is where one grows most as a professional and it depends on what gives you the most satisfaction.