Satin Creditcare will not compromise in quality of micro-finance loans while pursuing growth, said its Group Controller Jugal Kataria, in an interview with ETCFO. The company executive presented a bullish outlook for the microfinance industry arguing the demand and fundamentals are intact despite the pandemic challenges. He also shared his growth outlook, and discussed borrowing costs and focus areas going forward.



Satin Creditcare’s AUM stands at Rs 7,464 crore as of Q1FY22 end, compared to Rs 8,119 crore as of Q1FY21 close. Its Gross NPA is at 9.7 per cent as of Q1FY22 end compared to 2.43 per cent as of Q1FY21. Edited excerpts from the interaction.

The situation is much better compared to the time during the second Covid wave. If the third wave does not strike and the momentum continues to improve, we expect collections and disbursements to reach the pre-second Covid wave level by Q3 around. .

The company will take the restructuring call at the end of the month. Wherever we would feel there is genuine stress, we will restructure those accounts, and where we would feel that the customers can repay their missed instalments in the next three months or so, we will not use restructuring. So, it will be on a case to case basis. .

. Microfinance as a theme is still intact despite the challenges faced by the industry in recent times. The fundamentals continue to remain strong, there remains a robust demand among customers and we are fairly bullish on the sector. The RBI’s Rs 7,500 crore credit guarantee scheme for microfinance institutions will support our growth.

Jugal Kataria: We are seeing improvement in collections and disbursements from the June quarter. Our collection efficiency was at 87 per cent in July, and 90 per cent in August, respectively. This is up from 80 per cent in June. Our customers have started to repay after the second wave. Disbursements are also showing similar trends, but giving specific numbers won’t be possible.We would not want to specifically comment on this when about three weeks are still left in the quarter. But as we said things are improving with each passing month. In June, only 5 per cent of our clients did not repay us, which means 95 per cent still repaid us either partially or completely. We are constantly encouraging our customers to repay. And this 5 per cent number is expected to come down in the current quarter.But we expect the NPA numbers to remain inflated for some more time because customers who have not repaid us for more than 90 days, even if they start repaying both the fortnightly instalments, it will still mean they would continue to be NPA accounts, unless and until they pay back their previous instalments too which they had missed earlier. And that will take some time. The government too recognises this situation and has provided a restructuring option.Further, we would like to mention that while our GNPA number is 9.7 per cent as you have mentioned, we have made adequate provisions (8.4 per cent of the loan book) and that gives us comfort.We expect AUM growth to be around 7-8 per cent for the current financial year 2021-22 and about 15-20 per cent thereafter in the financial year 2022-23, subject to no more negative surprises.Our cost of borrowing (blended) is at 11 per cent (June quarter-end). We are ‘A-‘ rated by Care Ratings. Money from NBFCs is slightly costlier than banks. We expect the cost to be broadly in this range in the next six months or so.Our focus areas will be to improve asset quality and achieve 7-8 per cent growth in our AUM. In the long-term (next 3-4 years), we plan to increase our non-micro finance book share to about 25 per cent from currently 8 per cent.It does not mean that we plan to trim our microfinance book but it will naturally happen due to growth in other lines of business. We are not in a hurry and will not compromise in asset quality for growth. We will surely prefer quality over quantity.