In the last couple of weeks, AU Small Finance Bank has come in the spotlight following the news of the resignation of its Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Alok Gupta and the Head of Internal Audit (HIA) Sumit Dhir. Concerns have emerged among investors over these exits, prompting about 10 per cent sell-off in the bank’s stock price in the markets. Post this, the lender came out with clarifications indicating the exits were more “personal” in nature than to be associated with any governance or asset quality issue. In a detailed interview with ETCFO, AU Small Finance Bank’s MD and CEO Sanjay Agarwal spoke on the exits of the CRO and Head of Internal Audit, and dismissed the concerns arising out of the resignations. He also stressed that "unnecessary disclosures" will only create panic and not solutions. Edited excerpts:





So, we face these kinds of events and deal with this. AU Small Finance Bank is a 25-year-old bank with a lot of marquee investors. It is just that because of Covid, certain things happened which were unexpected but we really sustained ourselves from the last six quarters and there are better days ahead. There is no governance or asset quality issue. .

I can’t announce on the day of the desire expressed to leave because we are still in discussion with him and I can even hold him. This is a very general working pattern in HR where people actually can turn in and turn out on the last day. And in hindsight we can’t do this. People will go and people will come and at every point in time, if we start disclosing every resignation, it will jeopardize our own franchise. .

People can’t be selective in expectation from AU Small Finance Bank and not have any expectation from other banks because then we would be playing with those very people we are talking about. We have done everything accordingly the way we would have done in terms of the CRO resignation we announced two months before because we got the new one. In terms of HIA, there was nothing to disclose, the guy is still Head of the Internal Audit. .

Q2 is looking much better than Q1, and if the third wave does not come, this year can turn out to be a super year for us. Also, people need to understand that we are into the retail book which is secure. Our average ticket size is Rs 5 lakhs which is secured through vehicle or real estate. So, I strongly believe if Covid third wave does not come in September, then there won’t be any (negative) surprises in our asset quality. .

Sanjay Agarwal: I would start with a one-liner saying that the devil is in details. If you see the previous CRO before Alok (Gupta), he (Mayank Markanday) is still in the organisation and heading the credit card business. And Alok, we had hired him during April-May, but around that time Covid second wave had come and then people had to re-plan their processes. Their mind was more towards the well-being of their families. So, Alok (in that context) decided to move on.To add more to this, the CRO is not an individual function but under that there are about five to six different leads which include lead-credit risk, lead-operational risk, lead security risk, etc. And these gentlemen have continued to stay and there hasn’t been a single churn here in the last 4-5 years.Also, the CRO function reports to the risk committee which is headed by VG Kannan, Ex MD SBI and then there is a board and regulator. So, the CRO is playing his role under this umbrella. We are a highly regulated entity and have a full framework to manage risk in the bank.Regarding the change in HIU (Sumit Dhir), it is a very ordinary HR issue which we have faced in the last 4-5 years. This is not the first time that any senior person has been inclined to join us in Jaipur and then has gone back. There have been 6-7 instances in the last 4 years. Similarly, this is also a function where a group of people works. We have around 70 people at this function. We have 6-7 concurrent auditors, then audit committee, then Board, and not to forget statutory auditors, which have been with us for the last eight years.Sanjay Agarwal: When should I have disclosed? If you see the change (in the Head Internal Audit function) never happened. HIA continues to be there with us. For example, if X person resigns, and I need to find a new replacement and there is a certain guy who wants to join me so if I announce somebody going and somebody joining, and then both don’t turn up, then what will be the implication? You can’t pre-empt anything because after all we are all running a professional company and where people will have this pressure around leaving and coming.Also, it’s not only about the SEBI, but the RBI too. In the case of Head internal Audit neither RBI says nor does SEBI say to disclose. HIA is more of an internal function who sees internal controls and internal audit; the person doesn’t sign the financial audit nor does he have any say on the balance sheet.Just because people want to have anxiety around it, I can’t help beyond a point. But he is still my head of internal audit as I am speaking to you.Sanjay Agarwal: The Head of Internal Audit joined me during April-May. He belongs to Delhi, but the position requires him to work from Jaipur since the whole such team of 70-80 people is based from there and also the RBI’s regional office for us is there. During Covid second wave we allowed him for a month to work from his home or so.Thereafter, he shifted to Jaipur but then he and his entire family suffered with Covid. Subsequently, in the first week of June, he expressed his desire to move back to Delhi. Everyone knows how bad that time was; everyone took a backseat then to manage their personal and family well-being. We are still in discussion with him.Sanjay Agarwal: So, if you go by the strict sense, I would have relieved him by now. It is three months long, so it ends on the September 3.Sanjay Agarwal: We are in constant discussion with him. But that’s a very personal decision, it’s his own individual liking, and personal being. He has said that his hometown is Delhi and that beyond a point, he would not want to continue from Jaipur. But as I said we are talking to him. Internally, we have a lot of talent, and if we would be required to find the HIA, we would find one easily.Sanjay Agarwal: We have not done anything wrong. Let me give you some data on the disclosures. So, the CRO (Alok Gupta) joined us from Equitas. You can go and check if that disclosure was done on the last date of his job or earlier.There is one more data-point when Bandhan Bank had got CCO relieved, that was not even disclosed to the market neither anywhere else. Because that position does not require to be disclosed. But isn’t the Chief Compliance Officer as important as the Head-Internal Audit? Note the Head of Internal Audit (resignation) is never informed by any bank at any time.Sanjay Agarwal: Small finance banks are in a tremendous position overall. We are the largest SFB and completely understand our accountability and responsibility but unnecessary disclosures will only create panic and not solutions.Sanjay Agarwal: Our quality of assets has improved considerably from June quarter, and business is looking good. In fact, July and August collection efficiency is more than 100 per cent and we are seeing a good amount of reduction in gross NPAs from June number. People are coming out and doing business. There is again some surge in business activity.Sanjay Agarwal: I want to assure every investor, customer, employer and regulator that the bank is in very solid shape and performing well.