With a substantial decline in cases and vaccination numbers picking up, we expect to sustain our growth on the back of strong pent-up demand for travel. ,

We are on track with our growth plans and we are confident that our continued focus on operational efficiency and financial discipline will help us deliver sustainable business growth in the year. .

Additionally, EaseMyTrip’s cost and expenditure on all fronts are lower compared to other players on a Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) basis. In the travel and tourism industry, companies have only four costs: discounts, marketing, employees, and other admin expenses. EaseMyTrip has primarily grown through word of mouth and we see our no-convenience fee policy as a tool to retain our customers for a long period. All the above factors have been the key profit drivers and shall continue to do so in the future. .

A leader should aim to have a team that is driven to achieve the goal of the company and the idea to think out-of-the-box solutions to solve any critical problem must be encouraged. .

With a substantial decline in cases and vaccination numbers picking up, EaseMyTrip expects to sustain growth on the back of strong pent-up demand for travel, its CFO Ashish Kumar Bansal told ETCFO. Booking numbers are picking up dramatically in the Q2 (July-Sept), he said, adding people are likely to spend more on travel in the near future. The company aims for 100 per cent revenue growth for FY22, and the CFO said he is on track to achieve the aim.EaseMyTrip is an online travel agency in India; it clocked Rs 106 crore in revenues during the pandemic hit the financial year 2021-22, a de-growth of about 25 per cent. It reported a profit of Rs 61 crore during the period. During the interaction, the CFO discussed the company’s growth strategy, expectations from the government and his views on finance leadership. Edited excerpts:Ashish Kumar Bansal: Booking numbers are picking up dramatically and we expect people to spend more on travel in the near future. We have witnessed a recovery in travel and hotel bookings , more so since the end of June 2021. We believe that this exhibits a huge growth potential not just in the air but also in the hotels and holidays segments.We have been able to maintain our profitability through the pandemic as we have been flexible and maintained a lean business model, which has been the key driver in maintaining financial health.While air travel has been a key component of our bookings, we are also capitalising on the travel recovery by expanding our ambit across other sub-sectors, including hotels, buses, trains, and holidays.We plan on leveraging our vast agent network and utilizing it for the holiday bookings which shall complement the company’s hotel and holiday business.Yes, we do expect the profitability to sustain. With lockdowns easing and cases coming down, we believe that this trend will sustain as more people are travelling to be with their family and friends and are also planning short domestic trips to make up for the time that they have missed.Recently, a large number of countries have eased their travel restrictions for Indian citizens, which has steadily increased demand for travel as there is a huge pent-up travel demand.Efforts towards digitisation of the remaining population at a faster rate will help a lot as it will help in building last-mile connectivity covering tier 2 and 3 cities. Further, lowering the prices of fuel is crucial as our airline partners can pass on the benefits in the form of better prices to the customers. Last, the government should rationalize various tax rates and allow seamless input tax credit to avoid cascading effects of taxes.The intention here is to address the rising cases of cybersecurity. It may cause a little inconvenience to customers but we do not see much impact on us as we are not in subscription-based business.In my 22 years of work experience, I was closely associated with the travel industry and have enjoyed the work so far. In the current role, the experience has been very interesting, engaging, and meaningful as the organization has a very robust and strong growth path.It is imperative to support, build and motivate the team to create a healthy and stress-free environment in the company.I believe these are the things one should keep in mind as it helps the team members to learn and grow in the roles and responsibilities.