Jayant Sinha, Former Union Minister (Chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance) We proposed a number of changes through the legislation. For instance, it should be possible to not just sell a business in its entirety, but also to break the business up into parts and sell it that way.

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which was brought in to end the decades-long game of ever-greening corporate and banking sector stress, has over the last five years brought significant, in conversation withshared that borrowers have become more disciplined and attributed these changes to fear of losing control of the business.“Promoters, business people in India, absolutely do not want to default and that's why I think the credit culture has transformed so much,” he said. IBC has empowered the creditors -- If a secured financial creditor or any creditor takes a company to NCLT that automatically triggers the resolution process. The borrowers have become much more disciplined and are making "a tremendous effort" to be able to pay the secured financial creditors on time. They're trying to avoid the IBC process so that they don't have to get into a situation where equity holders lose control of the company.As under IBC, one of the fundamental changes was that it is a creditor-in-control structure, not a debtor-in-possession structure, he said. That, Sinha said, is a very strong incentive for people to avoid defaulting and continuing to make their payments in time.Therefore, IBC fundamentally transformed the credit culture in the country and reduced the risks associated with credit and the cost of credit as well. And that is good for the entire economy.It was the bad loans situation in India that led to the inception of IBC. Earlier businesses and promoters felt that they could avoid paying their bank loans and not meet their commitments. Those days are over, said Sinha.“Previously, the idea was that equity was debt and debt was equity. Now, debt is debt and equity is equity,” he said.The obligations and commitments while taking debt are taken seriously by the borrowers. While Sinha mentioned that the IBC process is being reviewed, it is perhaps more important to see what is not happening in the process.The Reserve Bank of India pushing India Inc towards earlier recognition and faster resolution of corporate stress has been robust in replacing previous frameworks that existed, however, it is still evolving and the Parliamentary Standing Committee chaired by Sinha is working towards it.According to Sinha, IBC has transformed the economic landscape of this country. But it is evolving - It has to dynamically change given the circumstances, he said.He said that it is important to have a single regulator for insolvency professionals and insolvency agencies. Pre-packs, for example, is another way in which the Code can evolve.As far as procedural and operational issues are concerned, Sinha said it is the NCLT has bottlenecks right now, and it needs to be strengthened. And to strengthen the NCLT itself, vacancies need to be filled with high-quality judicial members.Among other things, Sinha mentioned all of their processes have to be digitised, streamlined. He also called for feedback from the entire ecosystem.