The monetisation of assets, as laid out in the National Monetisation Pipeline , will have a multiplier impact on the economy and will give a push to growth and employment,CEOtells ET's Yogima Seth Sharma in an interview. Edited excerpts:National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) aims to enable a systematic approach towards recycling of capital. This has already been successfully explored in sectors such as roads and highways through models such as Toll Operate Transfer. The objective is now to systematically adopt this in all infrastructure sub-sectors so as to enable world class infrastructure creation and a paradigm shift in operations and maintenance. To this end, work on core asset monetisation has been underway over the past six months, with groundwork as also launch of transactions already complete for certain identified assets. From amongst the assets identified for current fiscal, Powergrid has already launched its first public sector InvIT, comprising of five transmission bundles raising Rs 7700 crores. NHAI is in advanced stages of launching its InvIT. Various other sectors such as natural gas pipelines, railways, ports, airports etc. are in advanced stages of approval or bidding. All infrastructure ministries are, hence, proactively working towards achievement of expectations set under NMP. NITI Aayog and ministry of finance shall, further, work in close co-ordination with the ministries to ensure all necessary support for realization of aspirations set under NMP.Monetisation under NMP is envisaged as structured contractual partnerships between public authority and private party. Transfer of rights on such assets will be defined by a well-defined contractual framework based on principles of balanced risk sharing, performance standards and protection of interests of all stakeholders. In line with the principles under model concession framework for various PPP projects, provisions for breach by Authority will be envisaged under the contract (as applicable for asset category, model etc). Accordingly, the concerns of private participants are expected to be addressed in such contingencies.The ultimate objective of this programme is to create a win-win for all stakeholders including public authority, private investors and most of all the common citizen through universal access to high quality and affordable infrastructure. This will, hence, remain the guiding principle for structuring of all transactions.Monetisation of assets under NMP is targeted at de-risked and brownfield assets with stable revenue generation profile. Given negligible construction risk there is reasonable traction for these assets. While in the short term, traffic or revenue of such assets could have been impacted, the longer-term potential and accordingly, investor appetite in such assets is significant. Further, these transactions are focussed on a single asset or asset bundle with a defined market, investor class, flexibility to design innovative business models etc, dilution of value is hence limited.Also, the assets and transactions identified under the NMP are expected to be rolled out through a range of instruments. These include PPP concessions and capital market instruments such as InvIT among others.The ultimate objective of NMP is to enable accelerated infrastructure creation and modernisation of services for a multiplier impact on the economy. This includes improved productivity and efficiencies due to higher utilisation of assets, synergies and economies of scale and new infrastructure creation. Which in turn will spur growth both on account of fulfilment of existing demand, as also due to incremental economic activity induced through such investment.In terms of employment creation, this will create avenues for skilled and unskilled labour in O&M of assets, construction of assets etc. This, hence, will create employment opportunities across the eco-system. In quantitative terms the impact is expected to be higher than pure infrastructure creation, given the multi-fold purview of the programme.State governments, state-level entities and ULBs have a sizeable infrastructure asset base with significant monetisation potential. Prominent asset classes thereunder include state highways, distribution infrastructure, transmission networks, bus depots, sports stadium and district level sport complexes etc.NITI Aayog has engaged with the states for identifying monetisation worthy assets and transactions. Discussions at national level webinar and workshops have been undertaken with state governments to create awareness about the programme and process for identification of assets. Nodal officers appointed for various states have already started the process of asset identification. Process for preparation of states’ asset monetisation pipeline is, hence, underway.