The one thing that was well tested and reassembled itself during the pandemic time was the supply chain across industries. In conversation with ETCFO Pawan Agarwal, CFO of the FMG major, Marico India shared the resilience of their supply chain during the second wave since the supply chain was stress tested during the first wave of pandemic.However, where on the one hand technology supported the supply chain to thrive, economic factors like increasing raw material price, topped with inflation and workforce issues, affected their strategy. Edited Excerpts.Taking a cue from last year, we have ensured better preparedness in workforce management as well as the continuity of the supply chain. With our manufacturing units and distribution centres spread across the country, we have been able to mitigate any disruptive forces, especially during the second wave.Further, we have focused on strengthening our BCP (Business Contingency Plan) readiness to be able to respond to any changes in the operating environment swiftly.We believe vaccination is the only way to defeat the virus. We have been able to organise vaccination drives for all our members and their families across the value chain as well.We also adapted to the new ways of working in a virtual environment by streamlining processes and maintaining engagement levels through various team building and support initiatives.We ensured availability of our products through adoption of the various innovative models explained above. In order to meet heightened consumer needs at this time, we accelerated the pace of innovation and launched a range of health, immunity and hygiene products in a short span of time. We extended Saffola’s strong healthy equity into immunity-led categories of honey, chyawanprash and traditional recipe of kadha and turmeric milk. Lastly, we instilled agility in our supply chain to be able to cope with uncertainty, by strengthening our business continuity plans (BCP), operating at leaner inventory levels and accommodating quicker changeovers in production.The unpredictability of the COVID-19 waves continues to be the biggest risk as lockdowns pose roadblocks in the movement of products due to limits on working hours. While business continuity is important, the health and safety of our members and associates is the clear priority. Therefore, we will continue to adopt innovative solutions in accordance with the rules in place to ensure we can meet both requirements.Owing to the surge in commodity prices globally since the second half of last year, we have witnessed sharp inflation in key input prices such as edible oils and crude oil derivatives. Prices of copra, another one of our key inputs, also rose due to leaner supplies and lower coconut to copra conversions due to pandemic-induced constraints. Rising fuel prices have also led to increased freight costs.With the peak season setting in, copra prices have cooled off by ~20%, while edible and crude oil derivatives have remained firm in line with global prices.In response to rising costs, we have taken pricing in our core brands, Parachute Coconut Oil and Saffola Edible Oils. However, the pricing has not been commensurate to the transient rise in input costs, as we continued to exercise a bias for a sustained momentum in volume growth and franchise expansion and consciously opted to absorb a part of the higher cost over the short term. We believe gross margins have bottomed out in Q1FY22 and expect gradual improvement from Q2 through the rest of the year.We have identified three key focus areas. First is supply security, where we ensure supply chain compression while having Business Contingency Plans (BCPs) in place to maximise efficiency. Second, is to create a framework that boosts our agility through enhancing our demand sensing and predicting capabilities, thereby shortening our production planning cycle.Lastly, we have rationalised ~25% of our tail SKUs in FY21, while also launching new packs to manage the overall complexity of supply chain. We will continue to drive SKU rationalization systematically on an ongoing basis to bring about incremental efficiencies in its supply chain operations.Our strong capabilities in e-commerce has also held us in good stead. With the help of technology, we have also devised alternate mechanisms for demand capture and fulfilment as well as to maintain flow of communication with the field teams and channel partners to enable quick decision-making.In order to fight the logistical challenges during the first wave, we tied up with online food-service aggregators and new-age logistics start-ups for last mile delivery, launched a retailer and consumer-ordering app as well as a direct-to-consumer portal in April 2020.All this was possible because we could leverage the technology very well. There has been an accelerated shift in consumer preferences in favour of shopping online and is expected to be a lasting trend even post the pandemic.We have been learning and evolving our strategies since the start of the pandemic in order to prepare a framework that helps us face such disruptions in the future, should they arise.Hence, in the event of a third wave, we anticipate limited impact on our supply chain as our processes have been stress tested, and we have already witnessed success in the initiatives implemented so far. Also, if a third wave were to hit us, we anticipate that there would be localised restrictions, instead of nationwide lockdowns, which would have a significantly reduced impact.