Businesses would not want to miss out on the festive cheer though they would exercise caution at the same time. .

Quess, a leading private domestic recruiter, is expecting "healthy job addition" in the current July-September quarter on improved hiring as the recovery resumes following a second wave, its CFOtold ETCFO.The finance veteran is expecting an uptick in hiring in the run-up to the festive season. Quess has a total workforce at about 3.6 lakh as of June 31. In Q1, the company saw a net job addition of 6,000. Edited excerpts from the interaction:We are seeing great momentum in Q2. A lot of pent-up demand is coming but having said so most of our clients remain watchful at this stage. In a sense, while they want the economy to come back, given what happened during the second wave, they are not taking their eyes off the potential third wave We would be most happy if the third wave does not happen, but if it does, we see the impact more localised. Our sense is Q3 may turn out to be among the quarters in recent years.We don’t know yet. It would be difficult to project any numbers amid uncertain times. But if we get anything in upwards of 22,000 job additions, we will have done a fantastic job. Q2 and Q3 are historically good for us, so we are expecting healthy job additions in both the quarters.Our domestic call centre business is literally going over the roof, which augurs well for the future. Prospects for general staffing and IT staffing also seem robust. We are cautiously optimistic going forward.That’s an important business for us. The good part is most of our clients have retained office spaces and when the facilities open, that will support our business. Further as schools and colleges reopen that will help our catering business to come back sharply. We are watching this business segment very closely.We are prepared for any eventuality. If the wave does not turn out to be severe, and businesses continue recovering, then we will be ready to grab the opportunity with both hands.If the situation turns out grave again, then we will take our actions accordingly. But as mentioned, we are hopeful the impact of the third or subsequent waves is expected to be more localised.