Top pharma major Zydus Cadila CFO Nitin Parekh shares his key learnings from his rich and diverse 35 year-plus professional journey. He had joined Zydus in 2009. Under his leadership, Zydus’ sales grew more than five times, while profit jumped about seven times. The company’s shares reflected a similar growth during the period, rising to over Rs 600 apiece in 2021 from just Rs 35 apiece back in 2009. Below are edited excerpts from the CFO’s interaction.

When I joined the company in 2009, Cadila Healthcare Limited had sales of Rs. 2948 crores and profit of Rs. 303 crores. For the year 2020-21, the sales was Rs. 15102 crores and profit of Rs. 2185 crores. Thus, I think it has been a great exciting journey. .

Having used such instruments like forward contract, range forward and options, what I have learnt is that one should never aspire or dream to beat the market! If you succeed in your hedging instrument, it is the play of the stars! No analysts or advisors can legitimately and accurately predict the macro economic factors which can affect the foreign exchange rates. .

What I have learnt from the initiatives and actions of Mr. Mukesh Ambani include, the risk taking ability, the vision for next decades, the use of technology and changes in business and business models in tune with the times. What I have learnt from Mr. Narayan Murthy include, professionalism, trust and transparency and concept of sharing of wealth. .

Risk taking and chances of mistakes have a high degree of correlation. I encourage my team members to take the risk calls without getting feared as to what will happen if there are negative outcomes. .

It is very important to groom the leaders for a CFO position. In my career of 35 years, I have groomed several finance professionals in different roles and functions including the position of CFOs. There are 8 such professionals to whom I have groomed to work at the positions of CFOs. They have worked/are working as CFOs in different companies and it would not be right for me to provide their names. .

After I retire from my current organisation, I will think about the future. I would certainly like to try different roles, including CEO of any start up! .

When I joined Cadila Healthcare Limited (popularly known as Zydus Cadila group), it was already a very sound, profit making and growth oriented large pharmaceutical company. Thus, I was quite confident that the company would provide me enough opportunities for personal and professional growth.I contributed to a host of important areas during this growth journey. First would be helping the company roll out a debt mix policy to optimise the interest costs. The average interest cost at a consolidated level in the year 2020-21 was 2% p.a.Second contribution would be managing various internal restructuring to simplify the group entity structure and reduce the unnecessary burden of compliance and entity related costs.Third would be maintaining a healthy balance of debt and equity with the twin objectives of financial prudence and improving return on equity.The last would be developing sound systems and a capable team to handle complex M&A deals from accounting, commercial and legal angles, and strengthening the communication channel to various stakeholders including the investors.The first and foremost milestone is handling two largest M&A deals in the history of Zydus Cadila group. The first being, acquisition of Heinz India Private Limited in Jan-2019 at approx. Rs. 4600 crores and the second being sale of India centric animal health business at approx. Rs. 2900 crores. In both these deals, I spearheaded commercial and legal negotiations.The second important milestone is design of capital structure and creative structuring of the M&A deals. It is a matter of pride that over the last 2 years, we have significantly brought down our net debt level. The establishment of the Liquidity Management Office in March-2020 really brought better insights into working capital management of all group entities and showed the power of meticulous planning and adherence to financial discipline.The third milestone is realisation of personal dream projects of creation of centres of excellence for shared services and working on Zero Based Budgeting.I am fortunate to mention that I did not face any big or fatal mistakes in my entire career of 35 years. Having said above, let me still briefly talk about the situations which gave us learning which can be useful to other professionals.1.: In the past we have tried different types of foreign exchange risk management policies. While, we say risk management policies; somewhere the desire to make profits and beat the market are subconsciously present in such hedging strategies.2.In several consultancy assignments in which I have worked with global and Indian consultancy firms, I have realised that the name or general reputation of such firms is not so important as the calibre of the actual persons of such firms working with you. Thus, it is more important to check the bio data of the team members who are going to work on the assignment.3.Finance professionals, by their education and grooming are expected to be conservative people. To be real business partners, finance leaders should understand the business and regulatory environment and be ready to take risk calls along with the business leaders.Yes, I have mentioned earlier about these two great personalities and why I admire them.Besides, I also admire our Chairman Mr. Pankaj Patel who has a great risk taking ability and an eye for innovation. We all Zydans take great pride that Zydus has come out with several options to combat the Pandemic of COVID-19 and our COVID-19 vaccine (which is the world’s first Plasmid DNA vaccine) is expected to be in the market very soon.I also admire our MD, Dr. Sharvil Patel for his empowerment to the team and fostering the culture of decentralisation and collaboration in the group. I would like to put on record the trust and confidence reposed in my ability to handle two largest M&A deals in the history of Zydus group.I humbly and truly dedicate my professional achievements to challenging, encouraging and rewarding assignments provided to me and ably supported by a highly motivated and loyal Zydus team. I also cannot undermine the significance of the support of my family.Having said so, I must also mention that I motivate and encourage the team to keep themselves up to date with what is happening in the external environment, so that the risk calls are based on calculated risks and not rash adventures! I have my monthly sessions with the team members (called High tea with CFO), in which the team members make presentations on contemporary topics of interest and we also invite external experts and CFOs to talk to the team members.Fortunately, I have not faced any major trouble where I need to turn to others to seek advice.However, whenever such small incidents have arisen, in personal capacity, I have always discussed the issue with my wife Rupa, who possesses amazing maturity and wisdom to deal with difficult situations. When it comes to professional or business troubles, I have discussed such things with our Chairman Mr. Pankaj Patel who can provide instant solutions to seemingly impossible issues!I am a person who is happy working with the same company for a number of years, rather than jumping from one company to another. I worked for a cotton textile group for 23 years after passing my MBA from IIM, Ahmedabad in 1985 and rose to the position of an Executive Director and since 2009 I have been working as a Chief Financial Officer with Cadila Healthcare Limited.Many CFOs will possibly tell you that they would like to keep Asset side items with them! I would tell you that the only balance sheet item I would like to keep with me is borrowings or loans/debt. Many times it is tempting to expand and diversify with the help of debt and the most of the business failures are also related to leverage.My biggest legacy to the team would be my constant desire to come out with some innovative solutions to complex problems. Out of box solutions are not easy but they provide a bountiful of lasting benefits.