With top IT services companies on a fresher hiring spree, HCL Technologies finance chief, Prateek Aggarwal discusses how it benefits them and the company strategy in improving the EBIT margins in FY22.



The chief human resources officer VV Apparao of HCL Tech in the earnings call that the company is targeting hiring 20,000 to 22,000 freshers. Last year it onboarded 14,600 freshers globally.



Our guidance for this FY is 19-21% so that is what we will stick to. We are at 25 to 30 percentile of that. Also given that this quarter had a pandemic impact, we hope that the next quarter will not get impacted by the third wave, assuming that doesn’t happen, that cost should not be there in the future quarters. .

Prateek Aggarwal: We have expanded in three cities Madurai, Lucknow, Nagpur, Vijayawada - the purpose is to diversify talent. By going out to these cities we are able to access a wider talent pool.When you go down the tiers typically you can reduce your talent cost as well and set up the right practices and also be able to get better work practices. This has played out really well especially for Madurai and Lucknow and we have more than 5,000 people in each city.Prateek Aggarwal:And of course, there is a hefty increment cost coming in and we spread it over two three quarters, we can expect 70- 80 bps increments. We will have to keep on generating the cost savings from measures that we talked about earlier.Prateek Aggarwal: We are going by the size and growth of the markets. In the last two or three decades we were focussed on English speaking large markets that are growing- France, UK, US and now we are focussed on two sets of countries. One side is the countries where we’ve had some presence in the last five years like France, Japan, Germany, Australia and they are very large IT services markets. And the new frontier countries, mentioned, are also part of the top 20. So, from the demand side, we want to expand in a big way and become a much more global company than what we are today in all relevant top 20-25 countries.Prateek Aggarwal: Our dependency on the visa rules is down to 29%. 71% of our people in the US today are either local citizens or permanent residents. The second factor is that over the last year, we have been steadily building up our fresher hiring, not only in India but outside as well.Hiring every quarter 100s of fresh graduates. While we still depend on visa rules, it is not like what used to be the other way round. (70% dependency on visa rules)Also read Q: Do you have any plans to take localisation to 80 per cent in the longer term? Prateek Aggarwal: We think incrementally yes! It is not something that can be done or will be done in a few quarters, it will take a few years to move the needle by that much, but yes directionally even if we move one per cent per quarter it would be a step in the right direction. Prateek Aggarwal: Finance has been leading this from the front, more than 75% of the hiring has been done from graduating CAs or MBAs or from other colleges like SRCC within finance teams. This process has been going on from 2019 around and we have been getting better as a function. As far as leadership, it is the most exciting and dynamic to lead the freshers.