Be it Zomato, Paytm, or Flipkart, all these young companies are solving the genuine problems of customers, and when that happens, valuation automatically follows. If one goes back 20-30 years, giant HDFC Bank was then a start-up trying to solve customer problems genuinely; similarly, ICICI Bank came around. This same theme is playing out today. .

If companies have a large addressable market ahead of time and can continue delivering the best customer experience, growth will automatically happen. Valuation high or low, the law of averages will anyway catch up. .

We see ourselves achieving breakeven in the next 18 months, and if the business recovery continues unabated, then it could hopefully be much earlier. .

On the financing side, we have been fortunate to receive the licence from the RBI to operate as an NBFC in this segment. If you see for every 100 new cars bought 80 are financed, but for every 100 old cars bought, only 15 are financed. This huge gap has always confounded me personally and as a company, we are going to further disrupt the used cars market with this offering. .

Valuation of start-ups has become a matter of great debate of late. Zomato pulled off $1.3 billion initial public offer at over $8 billion valuation; Paytm is targeting a $2.2 initial public offer at over $25 billion valuation as reported in certain sections of the media. And Walmart-owned Flipkart is said to have been valued at $38 billion last when it raised about $3.6 billion. Questions are growing increasingly in terms of what justifies this valuation.Against this backdrop, ETCFO caught up with used cars unicornThe young entrepreneur discussed his take on this topic as well as talked about the company’s growth and fundraising prospects this financial year 2021-22. Edited excerpts.It is hard for me to say if it’s a bubble or not, but valuation needs to be seen with respect to market potential and not just absolute numbers.People have different views and these arguments make sense. But at the same time from my own experience of the 2008-09 global recession, while global money does chase stocks, that is always a temporary phenomenon, which reverses after a period of time.Profitability is always an important aspect. But as one grows with scale, profitability will automatically come. Episode like Zomato shows that one need not be profitable to get listed. Today, Amazon is still making losses.So, this is not a thumb rule that one needs to break even to get listed. For us personally, profitability will matter as and when we plan to go public. But we are not desperate (to go public). The company has been almost doubling the revenue every year, while our losses have sort of halved, barring pandemic year 2020-21. Even in 2020-21, though our results are still unaudited, our revenue remains flattish year-on-year and we managed to bring down the loss margin to 7 per cent from 10 per cent.IPO for us is not an end outcome in itself. We would think of IPO when it would make sense for us to go public. Just because someone else has gone public, does not necessarily mean, we should also plan for it.As stated, we are not desperate to go public. We will ask ourselves the question does it make sense for us to go public now? If the answer is yes, then we will take a call. Our investors have been very supportive of this philosophy.It’s still confidential and hard for me to comment on. We raised $200 million in last November ($1 billion valuation). Subsequently, our business has been growing well. We will announce fundraising when we are ready and have specifics.We have seen tremendous traction in these regions. We have by and large the playbook ready courtesy India experience.The problems of the customers are sort of the same in each of these regions you mentioned. The sector is unorganised, most of the sales are happening offline, and the market is growing huge.We have earmarked about $100 million for expansion in these areas. We are already live in UAE and Australia, and now planning to expand in Middle-East and Southeast Asia. The response has been fairly successful in the regions mentioned despite pandemic restrictions. It has been a challenging and humbling experience so far.As a company, we really don’t think about what our competition is doing. Instead, we are more focussed on thinking about what our customer wants. Our philosophy starts and ends with customers only.The used cars industry is still much unorganised, there isn’t an assortment of cars available offline from which the customer can choose his dream car. We come here, and ask the customer to come to our app, see that large assortment of cars in the online mode, and buy his dream car almost at his doorstep, and that too with a six-month guarantee. On top of it, if the customer doesn’t like the car, he has the option to return it in seven days. This is how we have been building trust, and disrupting the market, and we will continue to do so.We are there in the two-wheeler category in Delhi, and growth in this segment has been healthy. In fact, it has doubled between May and June. In the bikes category, the ticket size has been lower, but the volumes have been humongous. The problems of these customers are almost the same, and we have the learnings from our car business. We can’t be more excited to now disrupt the used bikes market.I see only one challenge, that of execution. But we will overcome that.