With the State Government of Karnataka proposing banning of online gaming, and State Governments of Tamil Nadu and Kerala proposing to make amendments in the existing gaming acts to ban online games, the intention of several other governments appear to be of banning online gaming (irrespective of it being game of skill or game of chance).The High Court of Madras has ruled that poker and rummy are game of skill. Rishi Anand, Partner at DSK Legal

The need of the hour is to have a fair regulation in place. At the same time, Central Government or State Government may not be the right regulator. Maybe the government should look at a self-regulatory body consisting of experts to govern the online gaming space. L. Badri Narayanan, Executive Partner, at Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys

The online gaming industry is bracing itself for regulatory uncertainty as another Indian state, Karnataka, moves to ban online games like poker and rummy to check financial frauds in the space.Online gaming is banned in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, while governments of Tamil Nadu and Kerala are proposing to make amendments in the existing gaming acts to ban online games.“The (Karnataka) government does not seem to be able to differentiate between the online gambling and the online gaming or what is also the games of skill. There seems to be a misconception that online gaming is online gambling….We think it is not correct under the Constitution of India. We will challenge and fight these issues through our federation (The Online Rummy Federation or TORF),”Banning online gaming is not a solution, he said, arguing it will only lead to the industry moving underground and that will give rise to more illegal activities, he said. “Banning is not a good move for consumers, taxpayers, or even the government. We feel the state government (s) should come forward and regulate the industry…,” he said. Also, online gaming operators have investments from private equity and venture capitalists, and thus operate in a much cleaner manner as they perceived to be, he argued.Till the time regulatory clarity emerges, the CEO said his company will look to diversify to “pure games of skill” where no confusion exists among states. He hoped it is only a matter of time before the norms emerge to govern the industry.Karnataka constitutes 20 per cent of the business for the Head Digital Works. The company is already hit hard in Hyderabad (Telangana), which is another major market for online gaming where the ban is currently effective.Under the Indian laws, the ‘games of chance’ are considered as gambling and are prohibited, while the ‘games of skill’ are excluded from the purview of gambling and are permitted.While the jurisprudence set out above pertains to gaming at a central level, there have been certain recent developments pertaining to online gaming in certain States of India. Online gaming, including game of skill, falls within the purview of betting or gambling and hence, is prohibited in the State of Assam, Odisha and Telangana under their respective state specific laws. Further, in the State of Sikkim and Nagaland, offering online gaming services is a permitted activity, however, subject to licensing requirements.Rising concerns of the young population succumbing to gaming addiction and financial frauds in this segment have been the root cause behind certain states demanding complete ban on online games, DSK Legal's Anand said. “While the intention may appear to be right, no ban is justified until it passes the test of reasonable proportionality,” he said.L. Badri Narayanan, Executive Partner, at law firm Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys added to the discourse and said that the online gaming industry has literally exploded in the last few years, and the existing laws regulating this area have come into sharp focus.The current state of affairs, Badri said, has come into a flux as few states have shown a tendency to prohibit various forms of online games as gambling just because some money is involved without really considering if these games are games of skill or games of chance. “For instance consider game of chess played online where money is at stake, does that make it a game of chance and be liable to be banned?,” he cited an example.The under-regulation of the online gaming industry can be detracting, while over-regulation will be a deterrent to growth, according to LKS' Badri.By way of fair regulation, this expert feels it will serve two purposes! First, it will bring investor certainty which has taken a hit in the recent last six months with States resorting to bans, and second it will also provide a level playing field to the different gaming operators, he added. “To start with, this self-regulator can build safeguards to ensure that erratic plays & players are avoided, set norms about players and their income thresholds, impose a cooling-off period in case for players depending upon their performance, regulating the nature of online games and putting in place checks on illegal practices,” he said.DSK Legal’s Anand agreed to the above narrative emphasizing that neither an under-regulation nor a blanket ban should be the way forward. If the gaming market remains unregulated, one may witness a lot many disputes on this matter, and the same would get settled only after adjudication by courts, he said. On the other hand, the overarching ban will affect companies’ appetite to make grand business plans since the uncertainty on the legality of their business would continue to haunt them, he said. “…thus, there is a dire need of a balanced policy on this subject, in line with which the state government may frame laws,” Anand concluded.