While uncommon in the Indian market, there are a few instances of such clauses in the US. For instance, Talend, a NASDAQ listed company, recently announced the expiry of its ‘go shop’ period, post-which Thoma Bravo will commence a tender offer to acquire 100% of Talend’s shares. ~

A term sheet outlines the primary conditions of an investment and sets out the key rights and obligations of parties (such as valuation, subscription terms, conditions to closing, governance and shareholder rights etc.). It serves as a blueprint for parties to enter into formal enforceable agreements for the investment.The term sheet typically remains in force while the investor conducts its due diligence exercise and until definitive agreements are signed.Generally, term sheets are indicative in nature and do not create legally binding obligations of parties. However, parties often require certain key terms to be legally binding. These include an obligation to maintain confidentiality, costs in relation to the investment, and no shop obligations.Investors routinely incorporate no-shop restrictions in the term sheet. A no-shop clause restricts the company and founders from soliciting, initiating, discussing or negotiating any offers from third parties for the sale of any stock or assets of the company for a specified period. This is to ensure that while the investor conducts its due diligence, the company does not use the term sheet to shop for better deals in the market Since this restriction is intended to be legally binding, the investor can compel the company and founders to pay damages or a break fee (if agreed) for a breach of this restriction. Therefore, it is essential to negotiate this restriction carefully in the term sheet.(a) Timeline: Arguably, the most important factor to bear in mind is the timeline for the restrictions – till when will the restrictions continue? If the investor does not close the deal within the deadline, the company has practically been kept off the market for that entire duration. This may be valuable time lost for the company.The company may consider including a 30 to 45 day period for the restriction to apply. For larger businesses or older companies, a 60 day period is not uncommon, given the investor may require that time to complete the due diligence. However, the timelines must be agreed on the basis of the company’s funding requirements. For instance, it is not practical for a company to have a 45 day no shop period when it is likely to default on its payment obligations to vendors in 30 days.(b) Fall-away before the deadline: Occasionally, the investor may choose not to proceed with the deal prior to the deadline or does not make adequate progress to close the deal. It is useful to negotiate a fall away clause upfront – i.e. if the investor indicates its intention not to proceed or has not made any progress on the due diligence/ negotiations for a specified period, the no-shop restrictions fall away prior to the deadline. Say, a term sheet provides for a 45-day no-shop period. If the investor is non-responsive for 15 days post-signing of the term sheet, the company should have the right to initiate negotiations with other investors, since there may be crucial time lost in waiting until the expiry of 45 days to solicit other offers.(c) Multiple investors: If the company is considering offers from multiple investors, the company should contemplate a carve-out for any existing discussions with another investor. Alternatively, the company may consider offering the investor a minimum allocation in the total deal size in place of a no-shop restriction. For instance, a company planning to raise USD 100 million in a round may promise to allot at least USD 20 million to one investor, instead of a no-shop obligation.(d) Limited exclusivity: Under a limited exclusivity, the company and founder will have the flexibility to negotiate or solicit offers for any shares or assets of the company, except the shares being acquired by the investor.Consequently, the investor may require a restriction on who the other buyer is (ie a buyer should be a financial investor or should not be a competitor of the company) or the right to receive any more favourable rights offered to such buyer than those offered to the investor.(e) “Go shop” provision: A “go-shop” clause is effectively the opposite of a no-shop restriction – it allows the company and founder to scout for other offers for a specified period. The investor will then have the right to match any higher offer received by the company.A good term sheet can save valuable time in negotiating and closing a deal, and a well-negotiated no-shop clause can potentially facilitate the transaction for both parties. It assures deal certainty to the investor and lends itself to setting a definitive timeline for completing the due diligence and negotiating the transaction documents.