For India to become a $5 trillion economy by 2024 and the third-largest economy in the world by 2030, wide-ranging economic policy reforms and effective implementation thereof is an essential prerequisite. Tax reforms have to move in tandem with the economic reforms, to facilitate fresh Investments and create a General ecosystem of ‘ ease of doing business ’. The Indian government has taken some welcome steps, but still a large needs to be achieved, to create a vibrant, transparent and trustworthy tax system.On the one hand, we have very high tax rate slabs, but we have comparatively low tax to GDP ratio of around 11% only as compared to 25% to 45% in the USA and European countries. We have a comparatively small base of income taxpayers of around 5 crores only, but the amount involved in tax disputes is around 8 lakh crores with 60% of the outstanding disputes arising in last two years. This indicates the existence of a complex mesh of taxation rules, exemptions, provisions and a tardy implementation mechanism.With the introduction of GST in 2017, a major step was taken on the Indirect Taxes front, bringing in a single tax applicable across the country in an integrated manner. With the tax collected from consumption, it had initial teething problems of implementation. The ongoing mechanism of deliberations and consultations through GST council (which is the governing body) things have evolved in a positive direction with future expectation of further enablers for ease of doing business.On the Direct Tax front, there is a need for a similar effort on the part of the government of India to streamline the tax administration.The endless series of disputes and the ever-growing delays ranging up to 25 years with the pendency of over 75% in settlement of cases and instances of retrospective taxes cast a Dark Shadow on the Indian tax regime.Not only the structure of direct taxes but also the assessment and appeals mechanism required a change. Above all, there was to a need to change the mindset of the Income Tax officials to remove the element of distrust and chances of harassment. The proverbial Tax terrorism and Tax target hunting needs to go.To bring desired transparency, the Indian Government has taken recent steps include the launching of transparent taxation platform which aims to remove any physical interface between the taxpayer and Income Tax Department and also provides for faceless assessment, appeals and taxpayers charters’.The complex mechanism of assessment officials, CIT and ITAT lead to possible instances of harassment delays and excessive cost of collection of revenues. The high cost of collection of revenues is an inherent cause of inefficiency. The use of the latest technology including Data Analytics and artificial intelligence can bring in the desired efficiencies.The new launched platform aims to bring in the desired transparency and the possible element of corruption may go with the desired streamlining of the mechanism as the usage of technology as mentioned above is envisaged., effective and efficient implementation with all the likely bottlenecks to be removed on an ongoing basis as the system comes into effect. Honest entrepreneur and the taxpayer needs to be fairly treated with an element of Trust rather than with an eye of suspicion. The mindset needs to be open and not vindictive with the creation of an enabling environment to encourage entrepreneurship and Ease of Living We have in the past also faced resistance to change. However, any reforms which will bring transparency and efficiency needs to be encouraged. All stakeholders to need to come together and collaborate to create a win-win situation for the honest entrepreneur and taxpayer, while at the same time increasing the overall tax collection in an efficient manner. It goes without saying that in the long run, the tax base itself needs to be widened with new participants so that the tax rate can be brought down and made more attractive in a phased and time-bound manner.