In an interview with ETCFO, N Mathivanan, Principal Partner, Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys, shared his opinion on legal issues that will persist in GST 2.0.



“GST has empowered the (tax) authorities to take severe actions in case of frauds. The (tax) authorities have blocked credit amounts of various assesses on the grounds of fraudulent availment of credit. This results in a severe working capital blockage for the assessee,” he said.



Additionally, Mathivanan discusses that the government still needs to resolve woes under GST like calculating the benefits transferred under anti-profiteering, the disparity between decisions on similar issues in different states under the advance rulings and so on. These are causing “suffering” and “confusion” amongst India Inc he added.



GST2.0 here means the new return filing mechanism that has been simplified and the electronic invoicing mechanism that will be a major change in the indirect tax regime from April 1, 2020. Edited Excerpts:

N Mathivanan: Issues relating to transitional credit have been a matter of litigations since the inception of the GST regime. In the recent times, issues such as the denial of refund claims of the input tax credit, eligibility of input tax credit on various goods and services, 10% or 20% restriction on availment of credit on missing invoices, blocking of credits due to mismatch and anti-profiteering disputes are being litigated at various forums by multiple taxpayers.Recently, the Gujarat High Court had to provide clarity on the applicability of GST on ocean freight. The GST law needs to be amended to provide clarity in such cases where both IGST, as well as customs duty, is being levied on certain charges.Similarly, there are certain cases like import of repairing service or leasing services which requires a movement of goods into India. Certain exemptions or clarity in the law is required in such cases so as to avoid situations of levy of both the customs duty and IGST.N Mathivanan: To make the implementation of GST law effective, the government has introduced consequences which range from interest, penalties and confiscation of goods. Further, in certain grave or severe cases, the law also prescribes for the attraction of prosecution provisions. The penal amounts range from Rs 10,000 to 25,000 and can go up to the amount of tax involved. Offences such as the movement of goods without generation of e-way bill may entail confiscation of goods.This indicates the seriousness of the government's intent to ensure GST compliance. However, the government also reserves the right to either fully or partially waive penalties.N Mathivanan: The GST law has empowered the authorities to take severe actions in case of frauds. Post-implementation of Rule 86A of the CGST Rules, the authorities have blocked credit amounts of various assesses on the grounds of fraudulent availment of credit. This results in a severe working capital blockage for the assessee.With this rule, a taxpayer has to be very cautious about the selection of supplier. It has to make proper due diligence of the supplier before executing any transaction.It would not be possible for the taxpayer to carry out such due diligence due to various factors like cost, time and so on. In essence, the authorities should apply this rule in an extreme situation else, the opere of ease of doing business will be defeated.The proposed e-invoicing is also one of the measures taken by the government in this regard.N Mathivanan: Even though the GST law has been in force for a little less than three years now, the Advance Ruling mechanism is still not yielding the desired results. The lopsided rulings pronounced by authorities in favour of the revenue and contrary rulings given by authorities in different states has only resulted in suffering and confusion for the taxpayers.Further, the establishment and functioning of appellate tribunals in various states have been lingering on for quite some time.Also, the lack of proper and clear guidelines to comply with the Anti-profiteering provisions has resulted in sleepless nights for taxpayers. The need of the hour is the issuance of transparent guidelines on what constitutes profiteering and how the same has to be calculated. These guidelines should be issued after taking into account the interest of all the stakeholders.Secondly, the National Anti-profiteering Authority ( NAPA ) should also consist of judiciary members. Further, the NAPA should work on the de minimis principle meaning thereby that it should ignore trifling matters.