There is a cautious environment in India Inc even as the government says it is working to make things easy for corporates. The industry feels that the thinking of top political leadership has not percolated to the ground staff. In the backdrop of decriminalisation of some provisions of the Companies Act, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently assured businesses that the government wants laws that do not look at businesses with suspicion.spoke to finance chiefs to find out how the government can build trust and confidence among corporate citizens.“Laws subject to interpretations leave scope for suspicion on businesses, therefore, should be framed in a simple manner,” says Aneel Gambhir, CFO of Blue Dart , an Indian logistics company.On changes to the Companies Act, G Subramaniam, CFO of Milltec Machinery, an agro-processing equipment manufacturer, said, “The Companies Act provisions were draconian and decriminalising some of the provisions will be a good step and that’ll help. We will have to see how it plays out.”But frequent changes in law and compliance requirement, for example in GST and corporate law are a big pain point for India Inc.“Businessmen feel the government looks at them with suspicion in all areas as if making money is a crime. The political leadership at the top says that they do not look at the business with suspicion, but this philosophy has not percolated to the ground level, where the business has to deal with local government functionaries,” says Joydeep Datta, Director Finance, Sapient , a digital transformation company.Rising legal and compliance costs and stressed working capital are challenges for CFOs who are managing in an uncertain environment. A common sentiment shared by CFOs was that they want to focus more on business operations rather than on rising compliance, which is taking up their significant time and effort.There are laws like GST, Companies Act, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code that are evolving. Hence, frequent changes in the law and new requirement unsettle the corporates.“Too many communication and changes are difficult for the industry to keep a track of and be compliant with. We have to tweak our IT systems every time accordingly, but then there is the uncertainty of it being rolled back or something new coming up,” explains Amit Jain, CFO of La Renon Healthcare.He said this puts stress on compliance and the working capital. “The compliance cost has increased in our case; we had to hire an additional team of members taking care of only compliance and another consultant for being 100% compliant,” he says.Jain gives an example of the upcoming e-invoicing compliance under GST that will get implemented from April 1. Now the corporates have to generate an e-invoice and e-way bill for each transaction. “Imagine the amount of compliance a large business dealing with a huge amount of transactions have to undertake,” he says.“For any change do we have the infrastructure ready? Is the industry ready? For e-invoicing, there will be an invoice reference number of 64 digital alphanumeric string that encodes the supplier’s GSTIN, document type, and invoice number etc. How practical will these be in terms of implementation?” asks a CFO.There is a need for a stable tax system says Gambhir of Blue Dart.Manageable compliances with due consultation with industry and thorough assessment of laws before implementation are the need for the hour. “This will create trust all around and will improve compliances. Ease of doing business should be there not only for new investors but for existing businesses too,” adds Jain.Revenue targets is another area where CFOs feel that sometimes tax officials go overboard with their responsibilities.This is despite FM saying that targets have been given to avoid slack in revenue collections, and officials have been asked not to harass taxpayers.Amit Singhania, Partner of a law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, feels that income tax is one of the areas where the tax authority looks at taxpayers business with suspicion. Corporates must prove their case without reasonable doubt, he says.Revenue-target-collection approach makes the tax officials biased and motivated to create more demand, whether justifiable or unjustifiable. But the government has to collect revenues and can’t go easy for everyone. The step in the right direction could be if the government can bring checks and balances for tax official in other manner as well, Singhania says. If that happens, officers can be more transparent and will give due audience to the taxpayer.This will set the tone for a pragmatic behavioural change. “The environment needs to change, more training and creation of a vibrant atmosphere for taxpayer and tax official is required,” he says.This will not be an overnight change, but a significant impact eventually.On the other hand, Subramaniam feels that there is pressure in the revenue department to go after cases where there is a dip in revenue, but they have been reasonable.“I think the need of the hour is stability be it for doing business or compliances,” says Jain of La Renon Healthcare.The way forward is simple laws should be made that don’t complicate doing business.The reason why the government looks at business with suspicion is based on a socialist mindset, influenced by a communist ideology where being wealthy is considered evil. If you are wealthy it is because you have money that would otherwise have gone to the poor, says Datta of Sapient.On the whole, a lot of progress has been made in legislation administered by the Centre but a lot needs to be done on the laws governed by the states, notably labour laws. The next phase of India's growth will be driven by medium and small companies and they must be given an environment to prosper, he concludes.