NOIDA: A homebuyer who booked a flat at a housing society in Greater Noida five years ago but had stopped paying EMIs with none of the apartments in the projects delivered has got relief from the Delhi high court. The court, on September 24, directed the bank that had given the home loan to stop recovery proceedings against the buyer till further orders.The bank had moved the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) after serving a notice to the buyer under the SARFAESI (Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest) Act. DRT too had initiated proceedings against the buyer.The project, Sampada Livia , was floated in early 2012 in Chi 5. About 650 flat buyers had invested in it. Jayant Kumar Mishra, originally from Jharkhand, had booked a 1,330 sqft 3BHK flat in the project in September 2016. Some of his friends had booked flats there too. Mishra liked the location and opted for a house on the 21st floor.Mishra, who was to get the apartment by January 2019, agreed to a price of Rs 44 lakh for the flat. He took Rs 11 lakh out of his savings and a home loan of Rs 33 lakh from Corporation Bank (now merged with Union Bank of India).“The builder had a tie-up with Corporation Bank and asked homebuyers to approach them for financial assistance. We were offered a loan under the subvention scheme (75:25) whereby the bank had to pay two-third of the project cost and I paid the rest,” said Mishra.With the project making little progress, buyers began making inquiries and found out that the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority ( GNIDA ) had leased out 5 acres to PSA Impex Pvt Ltd to develop Sampada Livia. The buyers said they also visited the address of the developer at Shakarpur in Delhi.“But we have not been able to trace anyone. Whereabouts of the developer are not known to us. We have no clarity on the way forward. Banks and financial institutions are chasing buyers for EMIs,” said Rajul Goswami, an IT executive who was among the first to book a flat in the project. For Goswami’s flat, the deadline was August 2017.On September 30, 2019, UP-Rera deregistered the project and suspended the builder’s bank account, taking note of complaints from buyers. An inspection carried out at the time showed only 10% work had taken place with no construction activity during 2017 and 2018. The banks, meanwhile, kept sending notices to homebuyers. Mishra’s CIBIL score took a hit in 2018, soon after he was dubbed a defaulter by the bank. “Worried about my future and job, I decided to move court,” said Mishra.Advocate Anshul Gupta, who represented Mishra before the bench a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, submitted a copy of the master circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India for housing finance in July 2015 before the bench. Gupta also tabled the tripartite agreement between the bank, builder and buyer.In its ruling, the court stated, ‘The amount has been disbursed by the bank to the builder recklessly without adhering to the terms and conditions of the subvention scheme. Under the agreement, it is the liability of the builder to repay the loan in the eventuality of the project not being completed and possession not being handed over to the petitioner.”Gupta said that the order will help thousands of homebuyers who have taken home loans. Mishra said he paid up Rs 11 lakh and an additional Rs 4 lakh to the developer later but the amount was never transferred to the bank and he kept getting notices to repay the loan amount with interest.Addressing subvention schemes, the circular said “It has been observed that some banks have introduced certain innovative housing loan schemes in association with developers/builders, e.g. upfront disbursal of sanctioned individual housing loans to builders without linking the disbursals to various stages of construction of housing project, interest/EMI on the housing loan availed of by the individual borrower being serviced by builders during the construction period/ specified period, etc. This might include signing of a tripartite agreement between the bank, the builder and the buyer of the housing unit. These loan products are popularly known by various names like 80:20, 75:25 schemes”.Stating that such products were “likely to expose the banks as well as home loan borrowers to additional risks”, the circular advised banks to give loans that were closely linked to the stages of construction of the housing project.