Just 30 days ahead of the World T20 Cup in the UAE, when India should be focusing on getting its act together and finetuning things with the second half of the IPL giving it a perfect opportunity to do so, Indian skipper Virat Kohli has created uncertainty by tweeting that he is going to give up the captaincy for the shortest form of the game but only after the most important international ICC tournament of the year.

Kohli has tweeted that this is necessary considering the workload of captaining India in all three formats of the game while continuing to play the key role of being the premier batsman in the side. A point well taken but, surely, Kohli could have announced this months earlier so that India could have played the coming World T20 Tournament under the captaincy of Rohit Sharma who is the most successful IPL skipper, leading Mumbai Indians to five titles, as compared to none for the Royal Challengers Bangalore led by Virat.

So India will play the most important ICC tournament of the year with the players feeling that they have two captains, Kohli during the tournament and Rohit after. It is a distraction Team India could have done without in the most important iCC tournament of the year. Hopefully, the team will not be polarised into two camps.

The uncertainty could be compounded by the fact that Team India could have a new coach after the T20 World Cup. As per the BCCI three-point selection criteria announced in July 2019 and headlined then in all sections of the media including The Economic Times, applicants for coaches should be below 60 years of age. Shastri’s term ends this November and he will turn 60 on May 27, 2022.

This is the second time in the last 12 months that Kohli has ensured that the focus is on himself rather than on the team performance. Remember the winter of 2020 when Team India was setting out for its most important series of that year, the four-Test tour of Australia. Kohli and his wife were expecting their first child during the ongoing pandemic and Virat could have done what oher international cricketers in a similar position had done by just stating that he would not be going on that tour. Instead, the world was told that Kohli would try and lead India to a win in the first Test at Adelaide and that the triumphant skipper would then return home in time for the delivery. If Kohli had opted out of the entire Test series, Team India would have quickly settled down to playing under the quiet, low-profile Rahane.

Instead, the focus was once again on Kohli and unnecessary uncertainty was created during the first Test at Adelaide to an extent where India plummeted to its lowest score of 36 all out and was swept away by the Aussies. Fortunately, the team was able to recover under the leadership of Ajinkya Rahane who scored a century and captained the side to a win at Melbourne before going on to take the series despite all his frontline bowlers being injured and unable to play the final Test.

Leadership means allowing the team to settle down, whether it is a Test series in Australia or a BCCI-organised World T20 Tournament in the UAE. Kohli’s latest announcement on September 16 that he will step down as Team India skipper after the World T20 Cup (which begins on October 17) creates an unnecessary and unwanted atmosphere of uncertainty for Team India players with just weeks to go for the most important ICC tournament of the year.

If. as Kohli has tweeted, the pressure of leading india in all formats of the game was so much that it was detracting from his performance as the main batsman, the proper thing to do would have been to announce months earlier that he was stepping down as captain with immediate effect so as to allow his successor (Rohit Sharma) to lead the team in the most important ICC tournament of calendar 2021, the World T20 Cup which begins on October 17.

The Kohli announcement that he will step down as T20 captain after the World T20 Cup creates an atmosphere of uncertainty with Team India having to adjust during the tournament (which begins on October 17) to two skippers, Kohli during the tournament and his successor (most probably Rohit) afterwards.

What could be the motive for an announcement which could have been made months earlier? Questions could and will be asked whether Kohli was piqued by the September 8 selection of the team for the T20 World Cup. with media reports indicating that the selectors had listened to the inputs from Rohit Sharma, including the suggestion that Ashwin be chosen as the off-spinner for the slower and lower pitches in the UAE. Remember Ashwin was in the touring party but ignored by Kohli and Shastri when it came to choosing the playing eleven for the four Tests against England at Trent Bridge, Lord’s, Headingley and the Oval.

Apart from the Kohli captaincy-resignation issue, a question could also be asked on the selection of Hardik Pandya as the fast bowler all-rounder for the Indian World T20 team in preference to Deepak Chahar who had performed far better during the July ODI and T20 tour of Sri Lanka. Pandya was also chosen in preference to Shardul Thakur who had excelled with both bat and ball during the fourth Test at the Oval, scoring the fastest 50 ever in an innings in England. On current form, Deeak Chahar and Thakur have performed far better than Hardik Pandya who looks as if he is still not fully recovered after coming back from a serious injury.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE