There is one view that yields will go up, but we sense that India is focused more on growth, and real interest will continue to be very low or in fact negative (near-term). Going forward, they are not expected to go up substantially, and they may go up marginally. Importantly, we are offering a huge spread for ‘AA’ rated paper. There is a huge margin of safety for investors on the yields. .

By March 2022, we are targeting that 30-35 per cent disbursement will happen in co-lending format, and next year onwards it should increase and once that happens the AUM will start growing up. So, it is FY23, we believe that AUM should start going up by 10-15 per cent and subsequently stabilise at 20 per cent thereafter. .

Another 50 basis points higher net NPA can come but you must understand that we are carrying almost 5.5 per cent of loan book as provisions which give us a lot of comfort on the asset quality side. .

, Deputy Managing Director at non-bank financierdiscussed in an exclusive interaction with ETCFO the lender’s long-term growth plans, fundraising prospects, asset quality and regulatory expectations. The top executive targets to grow Indiabulls Housing’s AUM by 10-15 per cent in the next financial year 2022-23, on the back of strong disbursements through co-lending format. For the current financial year 2021-22, he hopes for some growth but not substantial.As of Q1 FY22 end, Indiabulls Housing’s AUM stands at Rs 79,213 crore; the book has significantly come down from Rs 1,20,525 crore at FY19 close after a major reduction in wholesale assets. The lender is expecting its retail book to significantly grow in the long run, Hooda said. Edited excerpts: Ashwini Kumar Hooda : The idea is to diversify our source of funding and access public markets. The finance ministry has emphasised that retail participation must be encouraged. So, we want to access a diversified pool of funding from retail investors.Yes, we did our last public issuance in 2018, and are now coming to the market after three years. But through the NCD route, we raised Rs 3,000 crore last year too.We do not believe in timing the market. In 2017-18 when we had issued the public bonds last, interest rates subsequently came down sharply and our bondholders benefitted hugely from the downward yields in the market. We come to the market from time to time.We are borrowing and repaying almost continuously. Typically, we would raise year to year Rs 20,000 crore, so this Rs 1,000 crore issue is not going to last very long. How soon we will come with another issue is a matter of how this one essentially gathers interest and subsequently performs.If we see appetite and see investors making money, we will come again in the market. But at the same time, banks, securitisation, foreign currency bonds are a few other options that a company uses to raise funds. Also, banks in the near term are large providers of funding.The sentiment is certainly looking up. We see good growth in the purchase of homes during the festive quarter, and correspondingly good growth in the home loan market.We are fairly bullish. We should see 10-15% volume growth in home sales and corresponding home loans during the festive quarter.On the growth front, we would want to majorly grow on the retail side, which is home loan and loan against property. Already, we have tied up with a few banks for co-lending relationships, wherein we have to fund 20 per cent of the loans, and the rest 80 per cent would be funded by lending partners. We would continue to earn higher yields.While our retail book will grow, the overall book may not grow because the wholesale assets are coming down. The current year will mainly go into building co-lending relationships but hopefully we should see some AUM growth, but from next year we hope it will grow very well.There might be 50-60 basis points of NPA because of Covid or the wave three coming up but by and large, we have guided it should be stable. The real estate sentiment is improving. Also, we are seeing that real estate prices are holding up or marginally started increasing. This is giving us hope that the worst is behind us.To shore up capital adequacy we raised Rs 4,000 crore of subordinate bonds in the past. As the balance sheet got consolidated and as a result, the size is lower, we don’t think the need to shore up capital now.There is enough regulatory oversight. We don’t anticipate anything from the regulator that will either propel or restrict our growth plans. We would only like to say that the current set of regulations are good and allow us to grow meaningfully.Co-lending guidelines to that extent are path-breaking as they harness the distribution capability of non-bank financiers while at the same time leverage the funding liability strength of the banks and lending partners. The RBI has been a helpful regulator for the non-banks.We are always compliant with the regulations. Whatever the change the regulator has entrusted, we will appoint auditors of great repute. We are a financial services firm, where auditor quality is more paramount. We do not have any physical assets which are stable or ones that people can see. Our business has funds and transactions.We would give preference to a firm that has worked with banks and non-banks, and understand business complexities. That is more important than anything else. The company will continue to follow the highest governance as far as auditors are concerned.