Girish Kousgi, MD & CEO, Can Fin Homes, talks about the changing trends in home loan market and discusses his agenda for business in the coming quarters. Edited excerpts from an interview given to ET Now.



In the last couple of quarters- there has been de-growth in loan book which is largely because of normal repayment which happened during lockdown and till the moratorium could get over. We resumed business in last week of May and the business we did during the time was much less than the repayments and therefore you will see book de-growing. However, December witnessed upward trend and we have seen good growth in December where our disbursement was equal to October-November put together.From December onwards we have seen only upward trends, Feb was all time high in Can Fin’s history and March is going to be better than Feb, so growth is back on track. There will be substantial growth in terms of YoY and also in terms of book growth.In terms of markets--in affordable space, the demand came back a couple of months ago and in non-affordable, it is almost back about 90% with a little pain here. The market is now robust. Both public and private banks are focussing on mortgage and therefore you will see heightened activity in the space. Other segments like corporate and SME are yet to pick up. At least coming years are going to be great for mortgage.: In Q3 last year, we did extremely well, Q4 was pretty good. Due to Covid-induced lockdown the next two quarters were quite muted and again from Q3 this year onwards growth started showing up and Q4 is going to be very good. On a steady state, we should be able to grow at about 17-18%.This would come from various quarters-- one is in terms of geography, we are quite concentrated in south from where we get about 70% of incremental business. In terms of profile salaried is about 71%. After Covid that mix has slightly changed, it is skewed towards salaried, this trend will stay for the next year and it will get back again to 70% and 30%--70% salaried and self employed 30%.All the financial institutions since last three quarters are focusing on consumer, within consumer focusing on secured and within secured --mortgage becomes the easiest way of growing book and within mortgage there is a lot of balance transfer activity. We have changed the pricing strategy to retain our existing customers and also to onboard good customers into our book. This will also ensure that next few quarters are going to be very high on growth.In salaried we are optimistic because earlier our pricing was at least 125 to 150 bps higher than the best bank in the country whereas now we are at par with the best bank and the best HFC in terms of pricing, which has opened up a lot of new segments for us. For example- Now we can cater to Cat-A corporates, Cat-A developers in terms of retail business. This will ensure that the demand would be much more than pre-Covid levels. It definitely will give us a lift in both disbursement growth as well as good growth.We are pretty comfortable on capital adequacy and leverage. Capital adequacy is 24 and leverage is 7.3. We have aggressive growth plans for next three to five years time and therefore we will raise capital very shortly.There is no update on that. We actually focus on our business and operations.We have adequately provided for COVID-19. In fact, we hold on our books Rs 73 crore for COVID and additional 13 crores including the restructuring part. So, in total we are holding about Rs 86 crore which is more than enough and in this quarter we will be able to write it back depending on the regulation. I do not see any further provisioning will be required.We have become little aggressive on pricing and we will therefore see margin contraction over a period of time. Having said that ours is lowest in the industry and we will also try and look for all opportunities to improve our yields. But we will maintain NIM of 3 plus and spread of 2.4. Currently NIM is around 4 and spread is about 2.9.