If one or more of the Team India cricketers now test positive in England, they will be put in isolation for a minimum of 10 days and will only be permitted to leave after two negative RT-PCR tests. They will also be scrupulously monitored once they arrive in the UAE for the IPL. Which, in effect, means they could miss quite a bit of the second half of the IPL which recommences in the UAE on September 19 and ends on October 15, just two days before the BCCI-organised Men’s World T20 Tournament starts at the same venues (Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Dubai) on October 17. What is at stake is not just the IPL but the Men’s World T20 Tournament.

Which explains why the Mumbai Indians (MI) franchise has already flown out of England and to Dubai its skipper Rohit Sharma, its pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah and its middle-order batting star Suryakumar Yadav on a chartered flight. Which explains why Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) is also flying out its skipper Virat Kohli and pacer Mohammad Siraj on another chartered flight. Presumably, the cricketers’ families (who accompanied them to England where they have been for a hundred days since June 3) will also be flown out on the same chartered flights. On arrival in the UAE, the cricketers will undergo six days of quarantine.

MI and RCB are two of the wealthiest IPL franchises. We do not know whether the other six IPL franchises will be flying out their contracted Indian players from England to Dubai on chartered flights or whether they will be arranging commercial flights for them. For instance, Ashwin, Rishabh Pant, Prithvi Shaw, Umesh Yadav and Ishant Sharma play for Delhi Capitals. K L Rahul, Shami and Mayank Agarwal play for Punjab Kings. Jadeja, Shardul Thakur and Pujara play for Chennai Super Kings (CSK). Dinesh Karthik, who is in England doing commentary for Sky TV, is the wicket-keeper batsman for Kolkata Knight Riders and Prasidh Krishna is the KKR opening bowler while the batsman Shubman Gill left England weeks ago after an injury from which he may have recovered by now. Neither Rajasthan Royals (RR) nor SunRisers Hyderabad (SRH) has any player doing national duty for India on this England Test tour. England cricketers like SRH’s Bairstow, DC’s Chris Woakes and Punjab Kings’ Dawid Malam have opted out of the second half of IPL 2021, citing personal reasons.

English critics of the Team India decision to not play the final Test at Manchester keep saying that the players had all tested negative on the eve of the Old Trafford match. However, the fact remains that for all those who underwent a lateral-flow test (Rapid Antigen Test) immediately after they learnt they had been in contact with an infected person (the junior physio Yogesh Parmar), an instant negative response need not mean much since it sometimes takes 72 to 96 hours for a positive response to manifest itself. Once a person tests positive on the lateral flow test (Rapid Antigen Test), that result is confirmed through a subsequent RT-PCR test.

For instance, after the August 31 release of Rav Shastri’s book in the hotel where he was staying and which event was attended by people from outside the venue and some of whom were not wearing masks (as per media reports), it was on September 5 (the penultimate day of the Oval Test) that the Indian chief coach Shastri tested positive on the lateral-flow test (Rapid Antigen Test). A day later on September 6, Shastri’s positive response was confirmed on the RT-PCR test and his close contacts (the bowling coach Bharat Arun, the fielding coach R Sridhar and the senior physio Nitin Patel) also tested positive. At that time, the junior physio Yogesh Parmar and the Team India players had all tested negative..

However, on September 8 and within 48 hours of the last day of the Oval Test, Parmar tested positive. At that time, some key players were being treated by Parmar for injuries and niggles like the opening batsman Rohit Sharma,(a knee problem), Pujara (ankle) and Jadeja (knee). The fast bowlers were constantly being monitored by Parmar. In any case, the pacers Shami and Ishant Sharma had niggles and could not play the Oval Test.

If Team India had played the final Test (beginning on September 10), it would have been too much of a risk to find out on day two or day three of the match that members of the playing eleven had also tested positive as a result of coming in close contact with the junior physio Parmar.

In retrospect, the decision to pull out of the final Test at Manchester was the right one despite the English expert commentator Michael Vaughan’s fulmination that “The Indian cricketers have let down the English game”. Vaughan’s insinuation that the pull-out motive was purely monetary (IPL) is not justified since what was at stake was also the performance in the Men’s World T20 Tournament..

.

After doing duty in England for over 100 days (Team India arrived on June 3 to play the World Test Championship final), the touring squad deserves some degree of appreciation, if not empathy, from England’s former Ashes-winning captain Vaughan. Surely, with all his experience, Vaughan, more than anyone else, should understand that high performance cannot be sustained in an environment where five members of a touring party (the chief coach, the bowling coach, the fielding coach, the senior physio and the junior physio) have all been infected by the coronavirus in the midst of a raging global pandemic.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE