“Butchered to make a Roman holiday” was how the 19th century English poet Lord Byron mourned the fate of the gladiators who fought and died in the Colosseum to entertain the mobs of ancient Italy.

How far have we come since then when today’s international cricketers, sportsmen and women are supposed to entertain us by constantly winning (especially if they are from our country) on live television. And that too during a raging global pandemic where the sportspersons run the risk of getting infected while we couch potatoes watch from the cocooned cushioned comfort and relative safety of our living rooms.

My father, a World War Two army captain who went on to serve the Indian Railways all over the country, retired to Chennai where he pasted on the wall next to the black-and-white TV set a printed schedule cut from the sports page of his newspaper and outlining the dates and venues of all the matches to be played by Team India during the cricket season so that he could watch the ball-to-ball telecast of every game.

I even had a retired uncle who scrupulously followed the daily schedule of the members of Team India to the extent of finishing breakfast before the telecast of the game started and then observing the drinks, lunch and tea-breaks along with the cricketers. And when the players on the field put on their caps during the hot afternoon, he would do so likewise. And let us not forget the renowned Jasdev Singh who, while doing a ball-to-ball commentary on radio during the 1974 India tour of England, said while commenting from Old Trafford, “Yahaan ke kabootar kitne safed hote hain” (“The pigeons here are so white.”)

Today, at 3.30 pm on the afternoon of Friday, August 10, 2021, I, an organisationally-retired but still active journalist, plonked myself in front of the TV set to watch the live telecast of the fifth and final Test of the series played by India at Old Trafford, Manchester. Alas, it was not to be. And not because it was rained off–Manchester is, as the pace bowler Wasim Akram who played for Lancashire once said, the rainiest place in England.

The fifth and final Test was cancelled because of the coronavirus. On the eve of the fourth Test at the Oval, in London, the Team India chief coach Ravi Shastri, the bowling coach Bharat Arun and the main physio Nitin Patel had all been quarantined after Ravi Shastri tested positive, and the others had been in close contact with him. The others also tested positive. Fortunately, the other physio Yogesh Parmar had tested negative and was able to attend to not just India’s playing eleven at the Oval but also the likes of Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma who could not play because of niggles.

Team India, assisted by the physio Parmar, won the Oval Test due to heroic performances by the likes of first Rohit Sharma and then Shardul Thakur and Jasprit Bumrah. However, just two days before the final Test at Manchester, Parmar also tested positive. He had been in close proximity to not just Shami and Ishant Sharma but had also attended to Rohit Sharma (knee problem), Pujara (ankle injury) and Jadeja (knee problem), not to mention the others.

In a routine Covid situation, the entire team would have been quarantined with immediate effect, considering the time-gap between the chief coach Ravi Shastri testing positive and the physio Parmar following suit (almost a week later). However, Team India was supposed to soldier on gladiator-like to keep not just a billion fans home happy but also the expert commentators like Michael Vaughan in business.

However, that was not to be since the worm finally turned. The Team India members, who were confined to their rooms following Parmar testing positive, realized that they were risking not just their health and lives but also that of their families who were with them on a tour which began 100 days ago when they had landed on June 3 (14 weeks ago) to play the finals of the World Test Championship against New Zealand at Southampton.

Granted, the last minute cancellation (announced just two hours before the scheduled start of play at Manchester on August 10) was hugely disappointing not just for the billion fans back home but also the expert commentators like Sunil Gavaskar, Sanjay Manjrekar, Ajit Agarkar, Sehwag, Nehra, Irfan Pathan, Saba Karim and, last but not least, going by the noise he made, England’s very own Michael Vaughan.

Vaughan even went to the extent of seeing in the last-minute cancellation a sign of the “disproportionate influence” the BCCI wieds on all things international- cricket. What Vaughan did not see or did not choose to see was the severe stress the Team India cricketers were under after learning that the physio Parmar who had been in close contact with them (and not just figuratively but also physically) had just tested positive. The Team India members were, as mentioned earlier but it bears repeating, accompanied by their spouses and children. Which is something which Team England should appreciate since they have already announced that they will not play this winter’s Ashes series Down Under if Cricket Australia does not permit them to bring their families along on the long tour. Which makes one wonder why an otherwise empathetic Vaughan can understand the stress which has seen the world’s greatest all-rounder Ben Stokes take an indefinite break from cricket but not realize that the Team India members are also human after being on tour since June 3. Vaughan’s tweet (“I honestly feel Indian cricket has let the English game down”) shows a lack of sensitivity.

Fortunately, the ECB (England and Wales Cricket Board) was far more understanding. After initially putting out a statement that Team India had “forfeited” the final Test, the ECB quickly corrected it by subsequently stating that the match had been cancelled due to the coronavirus concern and the stress it had caused to the members of the touring team when they learnt that the physio who had been attending to them had just tested positive after the chief coach, bowling coach, fielding coach and senior physio had earlier tested positive some eight to ten days ago. The ECB CEO Tom Harrison also stated that IPL (the Indian Premier league) was not a factor, thereby contradicting the likes of Vaughan who had maintained that the members of the touring team had pulled out of the final Test because they were putting IPL and the money thereof before international cricket and playing for the country.

And Vaughan was not the sole offender. Even the BBC, which is otherwise proud of its reputation of being objective, carried a provocative item in its “Involved” online section, asking for responses to the view that the cancellation of the final Test was due to the priority being given to IPL. It almost seems as if the UK’s national broadcaster is encouraging others to throw stones while keeping its own hands clean!

Meanwhile, for those of us who are deprived of our daily fix of cricket, there are other sports to follow. Two teenagers will be contesting the finals of the US Open women’s tennis tournament. The 18-year-old oh-so-poised giggly school girl Emma Raducanu (her father hails from Romania and her mother from China, and both work in the finance sector) is the first Britisher since Virginia Wade in 1968 to enter the finals of the US Open. Emma, who studied maths and economics at the Newstead Wood School in the London suburb of Bromley, obtaining As in both subjects in her A-levels, seems blissfully unaware of all the tennis history she is creating by being the first US Open qualifier to enter the finals. Emma has not dropped a set in her advent to the US Open finals where she will meet another teenager in the form of the oh-so-competitive but always well-behaved Canadian Leylah Anne Fernandez whose father Jorge (a footballer from Ecuador) coaches her long distance without being physically present at tournaments, including the ongoing US Open. Leylah is the first player born in 2002 to reach the women’s finals of the US Open, followed hours later by Emma. This will be the eighth all-teenager final in Grand Slam history in the Open era (since 1968) and the second US Open one since Serena Williams beat Martina Hingis in 1999.. If Emma triumphs, she will be the second Britisher to win the US Open after Virginia Wade in 1968. If Leylah takes the title, she will be the second Canadian teenager to do so since Bianca Andreescu in 2019.

The tennis-break will be over for Indian cricket fans on September 19 when the IPL resumes in the UAE. (The telecast begins every evening at 7.30 pm Indian Standard Time.) . The cricket action for Indian women will recommence on September 21 when the touring team led by Mithila Raj plays Australia in an ODI at the Harrup Park Stadium, Mackay, Queensland. (The telecast begins early in the morning at 5.35 am IST.)

During the afternoons in India when there is no live cricket from either Australia or the UAE, one can always watch TV serials or whatever. The other afternoon, there was this beautiful moment in the Star World serial “How I Met Your Mother” where a young woman on a midnight hotel-balcony strums her ukulele and sings an English version of Edith Piaf’s 1945-release La Vie En Rose (Life Through Rose-coloured Glasses, where everything is beautiful). Piaf’s Tu est partout (“I see You everywhere” and about a lost lover) was the French song played on an abandoned gramophone which the soldiers in Spielberg’s epic war movie “Saving Private Ryan” listen to just before the final battle where Captain John H Miller (enacted by Tom Hanks) dies in 1944 Normandy while on a mission to return to the safety of a mother’s prairie-farm home in Nebraska a paratrooper-son whose three brothers have been killed in World War Two. The dying Miller’s last words to Ryan are “Earn it” (meaning make this sacrifice worthwhile)

An ukulele is a good note to end on since it reminds me of the 21-year-old Mumbaikar Jemimah Rodgrigues who will hopefully be back in action on the Indian women’s tour of Australia and who, earlier this English summer, when not eating Yorkshire pudding or strumming her guitar, was hitting match-winning knocks for her team Northern Superchargers in the inaugural edition of The Hundred (ball tournament) organised by the ECB.

It was an Indian summer in England in more ways than one.

Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Disclaimer Views expressed above are the author's own.

END OF ARTICLE