Hungama 2 trailer: A still from the film. (Image courtesy: YouTube)

Highlights The trailer of Hungama 2 released on Thursday

The film is directed by Priyadarshan

It is a sequel to his 2003 film Hungama

The trailer of Hungama 2 is finally here. Shilpa Shetty ends her 14-year sabbatical with Priyadarshan's Hungama 2, a sequel to his 2003 film Hungama. The film also stars Paresh Rawal, Meezaan Jaaferi, Pranitha Subhash, Johny Lever, Rajpal Yadav and Ashutosh Rana. Shilpa Shetty features as the glamorous wife of Paresh Rawal's character Radheshyam Tiwari, who is suspicious that his wife is having an affair with a young man (played by Meezaan). Paresh Rawal reprised his role as Radheshyam Tiwari from the 2003 film. Hungama 2 trailer shows Meezaan's character trying to clear the confusion that he is the father of his college sweetheart's baby girl with the help of Shilpa Shetty.

Apart from epic comedy sequences, the trailer also comprises the remixed version of the Nineties track Chura Ke Dil Mera Goriya Chali from Shilpa Shetty and Akshay Kumar's 1994 film Main Khiladi Tu Anari.

Sharing the trailer on Twitter, Shilpa Shetty wrote: "Khatam hua aapka aur mera intezaar, Hungama 2 ka trailer lekar, laut aayi hoon main after 14 saal! It's double the fun, double the madness, double the hungama to tickle your funny bones! Streaming from 23rd July."

Khatam hua aapka aur mera intezaar,#Hungama2 ka trailer lekar, laut aayi hoon main after 14 saal!



It's double the fun, double the madness, double the hungama to tickle your funny bones! Streaming from 23rd July. Only on Disney+ Hotstar VIP!https://t.co/89xMyGFd3u — SHILPA SHETTY KUNDRA (@TheShilpaShetty) July 1, 2021

Hungama 2 will premiere on Disney+Hotstar on July 23.

Check out the trailer of Hungama 2 here:

Other than Paresh Rawal and Rajpal Yadav, the 2003 Hungama starred Akshaye Khanna, Aftab Shivdasani and Rimi Sen in the lead roles. The film featured Shakti Kapoor, Tiku Talsania and Shoma Anand in supporting roles.

Hungama was the remake of the 1984 Malayalam film Poochakkoru Mookkuthi.

Hungama 2 marks Shilpa Shetty's first film after 14 years. She was last seen in the 2007 film Apne.