Priyanka Chopra shared this photo.

Highlights Priyanka is currently in Spain

The actress is working on her upcoming project Citadel

In her post, Priyanka added the hashtag #selfcarefirst

Priyanka Chopra is squeezing some time out of her tight schedule in order to indulge in her beauty regime. She is doing it in quite a unique way. You'll know it when you see her Instagram Stories. There, she is seen making the most of a car ride to her shoot set. Priyanka is currently in Spain. The actress is working on her upcoming project Citadel. With packed routines, she may often miss out on some necessary steps to nourish her skin. So, Priyanka puts on a face mask to rejuvenate her face as the car takes her to the location. Priyanka proudly poses in the mask for a selfie. She wrote, "Taking advantage of the drive to work." In the hashtags, she added, "self-care first."

Priyanka Chopra and her husband, singer Nick Jonas recently announced that they have become producers for the Broadway comedy Chicken And Biscuits. Priyanka gushed about this in a long Instagram post. A part of her note read, "We could not be more proud to join the producing team for Broadway's newest show, Chicken And Biscuits." Here is her post:

Priyanka Chopra's work is taking her around the globe. She was seen in Paris a few days ago. In her photo from the city, we see the actress in a plush dress. She stands in front of the majestic Eiffel Tower in order to pose for the camera. The caption read, "An Evening in Paris."

Priyanka Chopra also shared major throwback pictures from her London summer this year. Through the snapshots, we get a peek into Priyanka's summer diaries where she attended elegant evening parties and went breezing down the streets in casual clothes.

What does Priyanka Chopra do when she isn't stunning us with some new project or reminiscing summer days? She simply sets our screens on fire with a “carfie”. The gorgeous-looking mirror selfie that we are talking about was clicked on a car's rear-view mirror. Does that bring down the glam factor any bit? Not at all.

Priyanka Chopra was last seen in the Netflix film The White Tiger.