Drashti Dhami shared this image. (courtesy dhamidrashti)

Highlights Drashti shared pictures from her trek

She revealed in her post that she didn't complete it

"It's the journey that matters," she wrote

We've heard the saying, "Life's a journey, not a destiny." Actress Drashti Dhami seems to be realising just that after her recent trek. Drashti's trek ended before it could reach its destination but she is not complaining a bit. Rather the actress is grateful for the journey and the friends who accompanied her. This was Drashti's first trekking journey. In her latest social media post, Drashti has dumped an array of photos from the "memorable" trip. Here's what she wrote, "It's was an incomplete trek…We didn't reach the final point…But it didn't matter…Because it's the journey that matters…Because it's the company that matters...Thank you to each one of you for making my first trek so memorable."

Actress Maninee Mishra was excited to see Drashti Dhami's photos and commented, "Awesome, please tell me where is this gorgeous place." Actress Megha Gupta called the group of trekkers "cuties." Actresses Sunayana Fozdar and Kanika Maheshwari commented with red heart emojis.

A few days ago, Drashti Dhami posted a video about this trek. We see her setting out from her home, taking a flight and reaching the start point of the journey. We cannot keep our eyes away from the lush green hills and dales. It becomes more enjoyable when we see Drashti's joy in that setting. Her caption read, "My first and the most life-changing experience in the mountains… My first trek."

When Drashti Dhami isn't filling her travel diaries, she is setting up strict fitness goals for herself. Here's a video she recently posted. The actress wrote, "Our only one workout away from a good mood. And, especially when u have noir and hazel in the background."

Drashti Dhami has a lot to celebrate. Her recent venture, The Empire OTT series, was released in August and has won many hearts. Drashti made her debut in the Hindi entertainment industry in 2007 with Dill Mill Gayye. She is known for her roles in TV series like Madhubala - Ek Ishq Ek Junoon, Pardes Mein Hai Mera Dil and Ek Tha Raja Ek Thi Rani.