The bicycle was invented in 1817 but we haven't stopped pedaling ever since. It is one of the world's most indispensable and ecological modes of transportation. Although one can argue of their favourites in terms of style and qualities, none resemble the freshest in town by fashion house Louis Vuitton. When two French houses join hands with their expertise, you're bound to witness magic. French bicycle brand Maison Tamboite is one of the oldest in the world and to nobody's surprise, have come together with Louis Vuitton to launch their exclusive range of bicycles. The LV Bike is not just any regular bicycle, it is articulately designed fusing luxury and exclusivity and the price tag is evidence enough of it at Rs 21.5 Lakh.

Also Read: Netizens Can't Get Over Louis Vuitton's Latest Airplane-Shaped Handbag

Louis Vuitton's range of bicycles are available online based on the model by Maison Tamboite but enhanced with Louis Vuitton's characteristic style. They are available in four colours - red, blue, yellow and black and also have a variant with brown leather covering with the Louis Vuitton monogram made on it. But that's not all; they are available in two different models - the first has a basket in front, while the second has a diamond painting on the back.

Also Read: Louis Vuitton Swaps High Fashion For Face Masks In Times Of COVID-19

But when it comes to luxury at its best, Louis Vuitton leaves no stone unturned. The signature monogram flower on the plates sit beautifully on the LV Bike and in addition comes with LED lighting, tracker, shock absorbers under seat and airless tyres. If that wasn't enough, the possibility of engraving your initials on a leather patch placed on the rear wheel adds a personal touch only Louis Vuitton can be trusted to deliver this beautifully to perfection.

Also Read: Kareena Kapoor's Louis Vuitton Mask May look Basic, But Is Worth Rs 26K

To shop more fashion looks, click here.

ADVERTISEMENT

Disclaimer: The Swirlster Picks team writes about stuff we think you'll like. Swirlster has affiliate partnerships, so we get a share of the revenue from your purchase.