Ever since Manish Malhotra's sequinned saree was first trending on Malaika Arora a few festive seasons ago, the fashion world saw a major overhaul of how the saree was suddenly also perceived as a party favourite. Fast forward to now and Malaika Arora's love her for sparkly sequinned sarees are going nowhere. Malaika Arora loves adding her snazzy touch to anything she touches even if it is a saree and this time around she chose a beautiful minty green pick. The sequinned saree is priced at a whopping Rs 1,35,000 and is a festive hit for all the right reasons. The bright emerald green struck just the right balance with the statement saree but in case the bling was not enough, a glitzy diamond jewellery set would have done the trick. The festive season is knocking at the door and we may have just found the perfect outfit to get your festive mood up and running.

Also Read: Malaika Arora Is Getting Her Friday Night Glam On In A Fabulous Pink Jumpsuit

Swirlster Picks Sequinned Sarees For You

The saree has an exemplary way of turning heads especially when you glisten like gold yourself. Malaika Arora is literal gold when she has to wear a gorgeous golden Manish Malhotra saree and very effortlessly dazzles like the diva she is.

Malaika Arora is always seen shimmering and shining her way in gorgeous outfits, so why should her sarees be any less glam? If the midnight sky were a saree, we bet it would be exactly like Malaika Arora's starry Manish Malhotra saree which screams glamorous from a far distance.

ADVERTISEMENT

Also Read: Malaika Arora Dazzles Like The Diva She Is In A Glistening Gold Sequin Manish Malhotra Saree

The ombre sequinned saree by Manish Malhotra is still a cult favourite for obvious reasons and to nobody's surprise, Malaika Arora has worn one in every possible colour present in the rainbow. If we had a bestie like Manish Malhotra, we too would be donning sequinned sarees like this one like there's no tomorrow!

Also Read: Malaika Arora Sparkles Away Like There's No Tomorrow In A Stunning Sequin Saree

To shop fashion on Amazon, click here.

Disclaimer: The Swirlster Picks team writes about stuff we think you'll like. Swirlster has affiliate partnerships, so we get a share of the revenue from your purchase.