When you think of fashion trends in Bollywood, you're bound to think that it's the actors and actresses of the industry who are responsible for it. But today, it's actually their offspring who've taken their places. What's even more surprising is they may be kindergarten-going tots who are miles away from officially entering Bollywood but are already rising as micro-fashionistas. Inaaya Naumi Kemmu celebrated her fourth birthday, which saw the likes of Kareena Kapoor, Neha Dhupia as well as her celebrity parents Soha Ali Khan and Kunal Kemmu in attendance. But they weren't the ones stealing the spotlight. It was three other pint-sized style stars.

Taimur Ali Khan has been a paparazzi favourite every since he could walk and that isn't going to change anytime soon. Now a little boy, Taimur was seen with momma Kareena leading him to the bash. Wearing a light washed denim shirt with a pair of dark washed distressed jeans, the little boy matched with his printed face mask and sneakers. Superstar mom chose a floral printed kurta set, gold sandals and sling bag.

Kareena Kapoor and Taimur Ali Khan

(Also Read: 9 Times Adorable Taimur Ali Khan Made Toddler Fashion Statements)

Kareena had her hands busy for Inaaya's celebrations with baby Jehangir Ali Khan in them too. Taimur's little brother was swaddled in an orange t-shirt and black shorts with a white bib and the most adorable cheeks in the world.

Kareena Kapoor and baby Jeh in the city ADVERTISEMENT

Finally there was Neha Dhupia's youngling adding girl power to the party. The expectant mother arrived with Mehr in a frothy pink tulle dress and white sandals while she herself wore a neutral bodycon dress with a peach floral printed cover up. Isn't it refreshing to see the young ones of Bollywood taking up after their stylish parents?

Neha Dhupia and Mehr Bedi Listen to the latest songs , only on JioSaavn.com

ADVERTISEMENT

(Also Read: Kareena Kapoor And Baby Jeh Could Be Stranded On An Island But Mommy's Sunglasses Go With Her)