A cup of coffee not just boosts and energizes you but also makes you drool over its aroma. While it continues to be one of the most loved beverages, it has gained significance in skincare too. So now you can not only sip onto a cup of coffee but also can nourish your skin to provide it a natural glow without using any harsh chemicals. Read to find out how coffee helps in replenishing your skin on this International Coffee Day 2021.

Beauty Benefits Of Coffee

1. Anti-Aging Properties

Sun spots, redness, and fine lines can be cured by applying masks. The antioxidants in coffee help rejuvenate the damaged skin cells.

2. Cellulite Reduction

Caffeine in coffee helps in increasing blood flow beneath the skin by dilating blood vessels. This in turn helps in reducing the cellulite appearance on the skin.

3. Prevents Skin Cancer

Vitamin B3 helps in fighting skin cancer and coffee happens to be a good source of it. Applying coffee masks or scrubs helps in preventing nonmelanoma skin cancer and other skin-related diseases.

4. Reduces Acne

Coffee is a rich source of chlorogenic acid which provides it with anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. Hence, frequent skin infections, acne, and skin abrasions can be cured by mixing coffee with its exfoliating coffee ground and using it in your skincare.

DIY Natural Coffee Packs

With those skincare properties, undoubtedly coffee is doing wonders for not only your metabolism but also for your skin. You must be wondering about the right coffee masks and scrubs to apply to skin nourishment from coffee? Need not worry at all! We have some scrubs and masks to get you started with your coffee skincare routine.

ADVERTISEMENT

(Also read: 5 Amazing Benefits Of Coffee Scrubs For Smooth, Clear Skin)

1. Coffee Ground And Olive Oil Mask For Lightening Dark Circles

To treat your dark circles and swollen under eyes, all you need is to take ½ tablespoon of coffee ground and add some olive oil. Pour down a few droplets of water to make a paste. Gently apply the mask under your eyes and wait for ten minutes. Rinse it off with water. You will find your under eyes lightening up

ADVERTISEMENT

2. Coffee And Honey Mask For Moisturized Skin

Silky smooth and moisturized skin is a wish of many. You do not need expensive moisturizers to get that plump in your skin. All you need is two tablespoons of coffee and one tablespoon of honey. Mix the contents well to form a paste and apply it for 15 minutes, Rinse with slightly warm water and pat dry. You are good to go with skin that is nourished and moisturized

3. Coffee, Yoghurt, and Turmeric Mask For Reducing Acne

Acne and pimples can be very irritating on the skin and can cause infections at times. Two tablespoons of coffee with the two tablespoons goodness of Yoghurt and one tablespoon medicinal properties of turmeric, when mixed together and applied on the face for 10 minutes, is just a natural way to get rid of your acne. Rinse it off with warm water and you will feel your skin fresh and rejuvenated.

ADVERTISEMENT

(Also Read: How To Use Coffee For Skincare: From A Scrub To A Skin Brightening Mask)