Whether you are travelling or are in a mood to host a party in your home, music is something that keeps us all going and adds an interesting and fun vibe to everything that we do. Speakers are the best way to up your music experience as they can deliver a high audio quality, which will get your party kicked off in a nice way. From Bluetooth speakers to new technology and advanced features, Amazon Great Indian Festival is the right time to pick the best speakers from top brands on slashed prices. We have bookmarked the date already!

Brand Model Number Price in India Buy Now

Mivi Play 887 Amazon

BoAt Stone 1,922 Amazon

Sony SRS-XB 13 3,876 Amazon

Blaupunkt SBA20 1,299 Amazon

ADVERTISEMENT

BoAt Stone 170 1,299 Amazon

Clavier FUSIONBLACK 939 Amazon

ADVERTISEMENT

Infinity Fuze 899 Amazon

JBL Flip 4 7,999 Amazon

ADVERTISEMENT

HP X0N10AA 1,578 Amazon

Portronic POR-871 1,749 Amazon

10 Best Speakers To Level Up Your Audio Listening Experience

Make some room for these stunning speakers in your home now.

Make your music listening experience all the more experimental and amazing with this amazing speaker. This speaker comes in a pretty turquoise colour and gives a deep and powerful sound with a solid bass. It has a battery life of up to 12 long hours on a single charge.

If you are someone who loves carrying your music wherever you go then this Bluetooth speaker is perfect for you to up your listening experience. This black Bluetooth speaker from Boat comes with a powerful 1800mAh battery that offers a playback time of up to 7 hours and delivers 10W of audio.

This wireless Bluetooth speaker from Sony comes with extra bass and is waterproof and dustproof. It has a compact and portable design which makes it easy for you to use and carry.

This sleek Bluetooth sound bar comes in a jet black colour and has cutting edge audio technology. It is super easy to connect with devices like tablets, TVs and more.

This blue coloured Bluetooth speaker from Boat comes with a powerful 1800mAh lithium battery which provides a battery back up of 6 hours. It has a stylish and portable design which makes it worth a buy.

This Bluetooth speaker comes in a round shape and gives you deep bass and extreme fine quality sound. It has a 1000 mAh battery which gives up to 8 hours of playback time. With this speaker, your audio listening experience will always be nice.

This portable speaker is a pocket size one and gives you 5 hours of playback time with one full charge. It is wireless and easy to use. It has a battery of 480mAH with 2.5 hours charging time. Whether you are lounging at home or travelling, this speaker will always come handy.

This Bluetooth wireless speaker comes in a black shade and features 10 hours of playtime. It is waterproof due to its durable fabric material and the portable design makes it super easy to use. The portable design of this speaker makes it worth a buy.

This peppy bright coloured speaker comes with a rechargeable lithium battery that gives you up to 8 hours of uninterrupted play time. The portable design makes it super easy for you to use and carry it anywhere.

This speaker comes in a stunning black shade and has a sleek design. It is cylinder shaped and has in-built stereo speakers with powerful amplifiers. This speaker is water-resistant and gives up to 7 hours of playback with one charge.

To browse more speakers, click here

Disclaimer: The Swirlster Picks team writes about stuff we think you'll like. Swirlster has affiliate partnerships, so we get a share of the revenue from your purchase.