Tha pandemic has entirely changed the definition of travelling for us and now our trips have become more space-conscious and shorter. To keep our mental consciousness sane, taking a short trip to nearby places is what we need. Whether you are all about heading on adventures or someone who loves being lost in the awe of nature, we have got you the list of the most amazing places that you can cover up on your weekends. From the beauty of rich culture to rejuvenating greenery, these destinations need to be on your list next.

5 Amazing Places For A Weekend Getaway

This time, explore these amazing destinations for a short or weekend getaway.

1. Neemrana

The beautiful palace is a stunning destination which is restored into a resort near Delhi. It is perfect for a two-to-three-day getaway. It has all the facilities that one needs during their vacation. From spas and pools to beautiful views and gardens, it is an ideal place to explore peace and rejuvenate yourself. The greenery is worth looking at and this makes most of the months suitable for the visit.

2. Agra

Agra, also called the city of Taj, is perfect for your weekend getaways. The city offers you to explore beautiful historical monuments, which dates back to the rich historical era. Taj Mahal is one of the most famous places to visit and then there is Agra fort, Fatehpur Sikri and more. If you are in a mood to gain some knowledge and admire the historical era, then Agra is a perfect destination to head to.

Add Agra to your weekend destination

3. Rishikesh

Rishikesh is quite a popular destination among travellers and for all the right reasons. It is considered as one of the holiest places in Hinduism. Be it the greenery or the quiet atmosphere or the raging river, this place is a perfect spot to detox your mind.

ADVERTISEMENT

4. Udaipur

When in Udaipur, experience the rich culture and royalty. The city has countless beautiful palaces and lakes. You can rent exotic vintage cars and enjoy the beautiful sunset at the lake. There are innumerable activities to do there. From experiencing royalty to trying out the traditional cuisine of the place, Udaipur is a perfect destination to explore.

5. Jaisalmer

If you are in a mood to plan a short getaway with your friends and family then Jaisalmer is the perfect destination for you. The golden hue all over the place makes it stand out, making it worth a visit.