Ahead of the festive season and witnessing the current pandemic state, home affairs are most likely to be a massive thing this year. Intimate home gatherings and parties might just be the biggest jam this party and festive season. With positive hope for better things to come, we are yet again witnessing that time of the year with full zeal and enthusiasm. But with home gatherings on the list, it is also time to make your home festive ready with these home decor essentials that will jazz up your home like never before.

Swirlster Picks Home Decorative Items For The Festive Season

Best Decor Items To Get Ahead Of The Festive Season

Get your hands on these decor items ahead of the festivities.

Candle Holders Are A Must

Candle holders are an essential investment that we all need to do during the festive season or ahead of it. With Durga Puja, Diwali and more festivals on the list, our home needs to look festive as well. And classy candle holders are the right way to begin. Whether you love classy modern designs or traditional ones, we have it all for you here.

Flowers And Vases To Glow Up

We cannot even say that our home is party ready. Metallic vases with peppy coloured flowers are a perfect festive vibe but you can always choose to pick the combinations as per your decor aesthetics. Flowers will add a touch of freshness and charm to your festive decor. You can keep switching up the flowers as per the occasion and festivity.

Deck up your home space with beautiful vases and flowers

Statement Decor Pieces

No festive season is complete without an array of classic statement decor pieces and it is the best way to accentuate your home. If you are a maximalist, then go for classic gold toned hangings or decor items to add a touch of bling or you can even accentuate the walls with hangings and paintings.

ADVERTISEMENT

Classic Cutlery

No festivity is complete without some classic cutlery on display. Whether you want to notch up the basic plates or want to add an extra edge by introducing dessert stands, go for marble textures and asymmetrical edges as they will add to the festive aesthetic and make it look all the more attractive.

To browse more decor products, click here

ADVERTISEMENT

Disclaimer: The Swirlster Picks team writes about stuff we think you'll like. Swirlster has affiliate partnerships, so we get a share of the revenue from your purchase.