Enjoying the first spell of monsoon showers? Well, so are we. The slight nip in the weather comes as a welcome respite from the scorching heat. Needless to say, our chaat, pakora and street food cravings are also at an all-time high. While it is absolutely okay to indulge once in a while, however,i you start bingeing into them more than often, you are bound to see the impact round your waistline very soon. It is not for nothing that you are advised to eat healthy and fortifying foods at home during monsoons. Your immunity takes a dip during the weather change and it is essential to monitor your diet according to the season's demands. While you are at it, you can also supplement your diet with weight-loss-friendly foods and lose a kilo or two. Considering the dodgy weather, you might as well be more careful about what you eat and how you eat.

Here are some monsoon diet tips that may facilitate your weight loss goals.

1. Snack right





As we mentioned before, there is no harm in tucking into a greasy pakora here and there, but one must practice portion control. It is fairly easy to snack healthy in monsoon too. Roasted bhutta (corn on the cob), popcorns, fruits are some healthy ideas you can try. These snacks are low-cal and also teeming with many health benefits.





(Also Read: Indian Cooking Hacks: Enjoy Monsoon With This Perfectly Grilled Homemade Corn On The Cob)

Weight loss: Roasted corn cobs are a healthy snack

2. Hydrate Yourself





Yes, it is the last leg of summers, but that does not mean you forget your water bottles at home. Hydration helps ensure elimination of toxins. It also plays a significant role in weight loss. At times your brain inter-mixes signals of hunger and thirst. So you start eating, even before realising that you were, actually, just thirsty. Therefore, keep sipping into water, infused water, juices, herbal teas etc. If you keep drinking water, you would also stay full for long and not feel like bingeing into anything fattening so soon.





3. Eat Seasonal Fruits





Including seasonal fruits in your diet could help you load up on a range of antioxidants that could help bolster your immunity and keep infections at bay. Some of the fruits that you can include in your diet are jamuns, litchi, melons, plums, pomegranates, and strawberries. Not only are these fruits delectable to tuck into, but are also profuse with dietary fibres, which could help aid weight loss.





(Also Read: Should You Eat Fruits Before Or After A Meal?)

Weight loss: Including seasonal fruits in your diet could help you load up on a range of antioxidants

4. Sip On Adrak Chai But Keep A Check On Sugar





A piping hot cup of adrak wali chai is always a delight in this weather, wouldn't you agree? The concoction can do wonders for your throat and immunity. Made with ginger and other herbs like black pepper, clove and cinnamon, adrak chai is a treasure trove of antioxidants. If you do away with dairy and sugar, this herbal tea could also help you lose a kilo or two.





5. Have Soups





Soups are ideal for monsoons. You can throw any veggies of your choice in your soup and make them delectable. Soups ensure healthy inflow of nutrients. Do not refrain from using healing herbs and spices in your soups as they help boost immunity. Since the water content of soup is so high, they help fill you up without any major calorie overload. If you feel full, you would naturally binge less, which would further help your weight loss goals.





(Also Read: Soups For Monsoons: 5 Ways to Drive Away the Chill and Stay Strong)

Weight loss: Soups are ideal for monsoons

Try these healthy diet tips this monsoon and see the results for yourself.

