





Kartik Aaryan and Alaya Furniturewalla have just completed shooting for their upcoming movie Freddy. In order to cherish the journey of the film, the actors along with the crew decided to celebrate the completion of the shoot. Alaya posted pictures and videos on Instagram that gave us glimpses of the post-shoot party. The Freddy team had a gala time relishing not one but five chocolate cakes to mark the occasion. Well, there is really no better way to celebrate than by cutting into some yummy cakes, is there? The dessert had the image of a clapperboard crafted on it. The creamy clapperboard reads “It's a wrap” with the name of the film, of course.





Also Read: Mira Kapoor Tempts Ishaan Khatter With This Delish Treat On Returning Home





In addition to this, it also featured a brown floral design. But that is not all. Another picture shared by Alaya shows that the cakes featured white cream and dark chocolate icing. And we have to admit that they looked amazing. In the caption, Alaya wrote, “The most wonderful set with the most wonderful people. Feeling super blessed and super grateful to be a part of this incredibly special film.”





Have a look:

We saw a glimpse of the cakes on Kartik Aaryan's profile too.

Alaya seems to be quite the foodie, who loves to share her food picks with her fans. She once posted a hilarious reel on Instagram in which she confessed that she couldn't resist digging into some juicy jalebis on a film set. In the clip, at first, she is seen rejecting a tray full of vada pav and jalebis. But turns out, she just couldn't resist the delicacies and ends up chomping on them soon after.





Well, having said that, Alaya also knows how to manage her diet. On most days, Alaya believes in eating healthy and clean food. Once, the actress decided to go on a strict 30-day diet. But before she began the diet, she treated herself to a cheesy pepperoni pizza.





In the caption, she wrote, “I've decided I'm not going to have a single cheat meal for the next 30 days…and so here's a picture of me enjoying a pizza.”

We love how candid Alaya Furniturewalla is about her food preferences and cravings.