Best Vegetarian Kebabs: No Indian get-together is complete without scrumptious kebabs being served on the table for starters. Team the moist and juicy kebabs with spicy mint or pudina chutney along with sliced onions on the side and there's nothing quite like it. Kebabs typically refer to meaty treats either in the form of skewers or minced patties, which were traditionally made in the tandoor or tawa. A whole lot of spices go into the marinade to build on the flavour, and they are then cooked carefully to acquire the right texture. There are different kinds of kebabs that you can indulge in - galouti, kakori, tangri, Afghani, tikka masala, malai, hariyali, so on and so forth. And there are vegetarian variants too. Yes, why should meat lovers have all the fun?





If you thought vegetarian kebabs only had to do with paneer, then you are in for a huge surprise. There are a huge variety of vegetables that you can transform into lip-smacking kebabs. From lotus steam, raw banana, beetroot and green peas to dahi, sabudana, corn, coconut and lots more. Want to try making some?





Here are our 15 best vegetarian kebab recipes for you

Melt in your mouth kebabs made of spiced yoghurt mixed with besan. Serve them with spicy pudina chutney for a relishing treat.



(Also read: 10 Best Kebab Recipes)

Vegetarian Kebab Recipe: Dahi Kebab; Image credit: Istock

Lip-smacking kebabs made from potato, corn, cheese and seasonings. This crunchy and delicious kebabs are show-stealer at any dinner table.





These beetroot and tofu kebabs are a power house of energy. Brimming with antioxidants these kebabs hardly have any calories.



(Also read: Galouti Kebab: The Melt-in-the Mouth Delicacy Originally Made for a Toothless King)

Beetroot Kebabs; Image credit: Istock

Give traditional kebabs a twist with an addition of sabudana. Easy to make and an absolute crowd pleaser, these kebabs will make your evening party a sensational hit.

The all-time favourite seekh kebabs full of veggies, almonds and figs. Straight from the blazing tandoor on to your dinner table!





(Also Read: History of Tunday Kebabs: How a One-Armed Chef Gave India One of its Most Loved Kebabs)

Vegetable seekh kebabs; Image credit: Istock

Here's a dish you want for every dinner party. Juicy cubes of paneer marinated and served with crispy capsicum and dripping sauce.





Here's the recipe of an ideal party starter. Kebabs made with the distinctive flavors of lotus stems, chana dal and mild spices.

Bhein ka kebabs; Image credit: Istock

Kebabs made of vegetables, coated with desiccated coconut and fried in a pan till crisp. Served with pine nut sauce with a hint of mint

A great way to start your dinner party is to serve these vegetarian rajma kebabs. Crispy golden on the outside and soft and tangy on the inside.





(Also Read: Matara Or Matar ki Chaat: Lucknow's Famous Street Food You Should Definitely Try)

Rajma kebab; Image credit: Istock

Scrumptious kebabs made with green peas, cashew nuts, chickpea flour and a variety of spices. This can get your party started - a perfect party snack!











Making kebabs could prove to be tedious affair for many, but it also serves as a great opportunity to experiment with a variety of ingredients and come up with something completely new each time. Believe it or not, some of the most iconic kebabs were either a product of accident or a really ingenious mind who went with their conviction and tried something unconventional. Badam papite ke kebab with pineapple salsa is one delicious departure from your regular vegetarian kebab. Made with raw papaya, potato, almonds and a host of spices, this mouth-watering goes best with pineapple salsa dip.





Made with healthy goodness of spinach and green peas, mashed potatoes, chillies and select spices, this melt-in-mouth kebabs are a staple in every occasion with an all-vegetarian fare. Quick, simple and delicious, this kebab is a must try.

Vegetarian kebabs: These kebabs are made with healthy goodness of spinach and green peas, mashed potatoes and select spices,

Potato lovers raise your hands! These lip-smacking kebabs are made with grilled potatoes tossed in a mix of eclectic herbs and spices. You can team them with mint chutney, tomato ketchup or yogurt for best experience.

Vegetarian tangdi kebab is a vegetarian version of chicken tangdi kebab which is made out of basic ingredients like bread slices, boiled potatoes, paneer along with spices like garam masala, red chilli powder and tangy chaat masala.

A great substitute for chicken and mutton kebabs, this kebab is made with boiled chana, soft kethak chunks followed by aromatic seasonings.







Try these amazing kebabs and do lets us know which ones you liked the best in the comments section below.