World Heart Day 2021: In the last two years, we all have become extremely health conscious. And as we learn to keep ourselves healthy, one of the things we still need to prioritise is heart health. According to the World Heart Federation, cardiovascular disease is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. As a result, it is crucial to understand the numerous factors leading to heart diseases and what one can do to improve their health. Although various health experts recommend adding heart healthy foods to our diet.





According to the Harvard School of Public Health, an ideal diet for preventing heart diseases is one that contains fruits and vegetables, whole grains, nuts, fish, poultry and vegetable oils. In addition, one should consume less red and processed meats, refined carbohydrates, foods and beverages with added sugar, sodium, and foods with trans fat.





(Also Read: World Heart Day: The Myths and Facts About Heart Health)





Keeping this in mind, here we bring you a few everyday foods to include in your diet for a healthy heart.

World Heart Day 2021: Here Are 7 Everyday Foods To Include In Your Diet:

1. Whole Grains

Whole grains like wheat, oats, barley, brown rice and quinoa are some grains that one can add to their diet. In research published in British Medical Association, it was found that that 28-gram serving of whole grains daily may lower your risk of heart disease by 22%. Many researchers have also concluded that the consumption of refined whole grains should be less.

2. Legumes

Legumes aid the heart by regulating blood sugar and insulin levels, as well as has a favourable influence on blood pressure. Scientific studies have shown that plant-based legumes and proteins are superior to animal proteins in terms of decreasing risk factors for cardiovascular disease because the former has a lower and healthier lipid level as well as a greater fibre content.

3. Vegetables

Vegetables include fibre, which is the most critical vitamin for heart health. Furthermore, most veggies are high in antioxidants, which help to protect the heart and arteries from free radical damage. They also supply critical vitamins and minerals for heart health, such as potassium and magnesium.

4. Nuts And Seeds

Nuts and seeds are known to have many benefits, the top one being to improve heart health. They are readily available in local markets and supermarkets. According to a new study published in the British Medical Journal, consuming several servings of nuts per week can help reduce the risk of developing heart rhythm irregularity.

4. Fatty Fish

Omega-3 fatty acids, found in fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, sardines, and tuna, have been widely studied for their heart health advantages. As per the Journal of Nutrition, eating salmon three times a week for eight weeks significantly decreased diastolic blood pressure in many people.

5. Dark Chocolate

Yes, you read that right! Several studies have shown that dark chocolate can help to reduce the risk of heart disease. Dark chocolate is known to be rich in flavonoids which can help boost heart health.

7. Fruits

Fruits are a great in-between-meal snack or post-meal sweet since they are low in fat and high in nutrients like potassium, magnesium, fibre, and antioxidants. One should try to have fruit as it is or can even make juice from it.

Add these foods to your everyday diet to improve heart health.





Happy World Heart Day 2021!





Disclaimer: This content including advice provides generic information only. It is in no way a substitute for qualified medical opinion. Always consult a specialist or your own doctor for more information. NDTV does not claim responsibility for this information.