Have you ever had those days where your stomach is upset and you spend the day in the toilet out of the fear of vomiting? Feeling nauseous is one stomach condition that can physically exhaust your body, especially when you are already feeling sick. There is no one particular cause behind vomiting - many factors can lead to nausea. It could be motion sickness, acid reflux, indigestion or even morning sickness. Nausea can have many causes, but the causes don't affect are ways to fight the urge to vomit. We have curated a list of easily available remedies that may help bring you relief from nausea. Now, you can choose natural remedies to prevent nausea.





Also Read: Post-Lockdown Skin Care: 15 Foods To Include In Your Diet For A Healthy Skin

Here Are 7 Home Remedies That May Relieve Nausea:

1.Mint

Health Coach and Nutritionist Shilpa Arora suggests that chewing on fresh mint leaves may help one get rid of nausea. The strong and pungent flavour of mint is refreshing and cooling, helping the stomach calm down.

Drink ginger tea to soothe your stomach.

2.Ginger

Ginger has helped ease the irritation of the stomach. Ayurvedic expert Dr BN Sinha recommends having crushed ginger mixed in water to help subsides the vomiting.





Also Read: Home Remedies For Stomach Pain: 5 Foods For Good Digestion

3.Coconut water

Coconut water is highly nutritious and has many health benefits. "Add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice to a cup of coconut water and take a sip every fifteen minutes to settle your stomach," writes Dr Vasant Lad in his book on ayurvedic home remedies.





4.Cloves

This is one recommendation that is straight from our grandparents. Chewing a few pieces of cloves is a great solution that may help prevent nausea. The aroma and taste of cloves may prevent vomit.





5.Saunf

Saunf is popularly known for its use as a mouth freshener eaten after a meal; it has nutrients that benefit the body. Chewing on fennel seeds or drinking fennel tea can help soothe the stomach and control vomiting.

Cardamom can also be consumed in the form of tea.

6.Cardamom

Also known as elaichi, cardamom helps in dealing with nausea. Ayurveda recommends that chewing cardamom seeds can help soothe the vomiting sensation. Another way is to eat a mixture of ground cardamom with honey.





7.Lemonade

Lemon juice contains neutralizing acids that form bicarbonates. Bicarbonates help relieve nausea. Therefore, lemonade not only relieves vomiting but also prevents the body from dehydration, a common after-effect of vomiting.





Try these natural remedies at home and tell us which remedy is your favourite in the comments section





Disclaimer: This content including advice provides generic information only. It is in no way a substitute for qualified medical opinion. Always consult a specialist or your own doctor for more information. NDTV does not claim responsibility for this information.



