If you have a very dry scalp, more often than not, you may have found yourself in an embarrassing situation where the collar of your shirt is covered with white flaky substances! The worst part is that dandruff can affect more than just your scalp, your face and body are equally prone to damages caused by dandruff. You may think dryness is the major cause of dandruff; however, in reality, it is caused due to cells of the skin that have a very short life, they grow and die with great rapidity.





Also Read: 10 Wonderful Benefits and Uses of Neem: A Herb That Heals

Nothing can be more convenient than using neem for dandruff.

A fungus known as Malassezia is responsible for dandruff. The winter season is said to be the most suitable for it to grow, and it sure is stubborn! If not treated thoughtfully it can grow back no matter how many times you try. Contrary to popular belief, one effective way to get rid of dandruff is to shampoo daily, this prevents the cells that have a short life from growing thus preventing dandruff as well. An after-effect of untreated dandruff is hair loss, so it is best to catch the issue on time and follow a due course of treatment.





Nothing can be more convenient than using neem for dandruff; it is easily available in and around our homes. The properties possessed by the neem leaves are used to treat multiple skin and hair issues. It contains blood-purifying as well as anti-microbial elements. It is effectively-known to be an antifungal and antiviral, in addition to being anti-inflammatory. Here's how to use neem in order to get rid of dandruff and get beautiful, shiny hair.

Here's How To Use Neem To Get Rid Of Dandruff:

1. Chew the Neem leaves

This might seem a little unusual but according to various health and beauty experts, the easiest way to get rid of dandruff is to chew the neem leaves every morning. To make it taste less bitter,r mix the leaves with honey, you can also make a decoction by boiling neem leaves and drink the strained water. Once you start seeing the benefits, the process feels much easier and rewarding.

2. Neem oil

Neem oil can be easily created at home by adding few neem leaves to coconut oil and bringing it to a boil and finally adding a few drops of lemon to it. Use lemon sparingly and try not to go into the sunlight after using this oil since there might be some side effects of exposing lemon in your hair to the sun. The best way is to rub this oil gently on your scalp, leave it on overnight and then wash it off in the morning.

3. Neem and curd

A combination of neem and curd is the ideal way to curb dandruff. Curd along with being considered a treatment for dandruff also has the added benefits of softening and strengthening your hair cuticles. Make a paste of neem leaves, add it to a bowl of curd and apply all over your scalp. Leave it on for 15-20 minutes and then rinse. The anti-fungal properties of neem in combination with the soothing and cool effect of curd does wonders in fighting dandruff.

A combination of neem and curd is the ideal way to curb dandruff.

4. Neem hair mask

A neem hair mask is the easiest remedy for dandruff. All you have to do is take some neem leaves, grind them in the mixer and add a tablespoon of honey to it. Apply this thick paste all over the scalp like a hair mask and allow it to stay for 20 minutes. Wash it when it is suitably dry and watch the wonders it does to your scalp.

5. Neem as a hair conditioner

The versatility of neem is that you can use it pre or post hair wash and it will still be immensely effective. To make this neem conditioner, take a few neem leaves and boil them, allow them to cool down. After shampooing your hair, rinse the hair with this mixture of neem and see the miracle.

6. Neem Shampoo

The easiest solution for all dandruff problems. All you have to do is get Neem-based shampoo from the nearest store. Apply and wash your hair 2-3 times per week. We suggest using Head and Shoulders Neem for this because it has all the healing properties you need to get rid of dandruff.

All you have to do is get Neem-based shampoo to control dandruff.

Photo Credit: Head & Shoulders