Flaunting heathy, long and gorgeous hair is everyone's dream. We know that the kind of hair we get largely depends on our genetics, but if we take proper care, we can get the hair of our dreams. There are countless over-the-counter medications, ointments, oils etc. that claim to improve the quality of our hair and also help them grow, but why torture our hair with all those chemicals (we don't know what side effects they may have) when you can easily achieve the goal at home with natural remedies that don't burn a hole in your pocket. Look around in your kitchen and you'll find a string of foods that can help grow your hair naturally!





(Also Read: 5 Biotin-Rich Foods That May Stop Hair Fall And Help Them Grow)

Eat well for healthy hair.

Home Remedies You Must Try For Natural Hair Growth:

1. Aloe Vera Juice

Aloe vera is known to have a good amount of proteolytic enzymes, which may repair dead skin cells and hair follicles, resulting in quicker hair growth. It is advised to start the day drinking a glass of aloe vera juice. Here's how you can make it.

2. Almonds And Banana Smoothie

Almond, being rich in proteins, vitamins and minerals like zinc, are great for hair health. Vitamin E found in almonds is said to be very helpful in repairing damaged hair by propelling the production of keratin. Bananas, on the other hand provide us with a high amount of calcium and folic acids to nourish our hair. Make almonds and banana smoothie by blending together both the foods in milk along with some nuts, seeds, cinnamon powder and honey. Here's the full recipe.

3. Protein-Rich Diet

Consultant Nutritionist Rupali Datta reveals, “Our hair is made up of 95% Keratin (a protein) and 18 amino acids (building blocks of proteins). So adding protein to your diet can go a long way in maintaining your hair health. Eggs, chicken, poultry, milk, cheese, nuts, yogurt, quinoa are excellent sources of proteins and must be consumed in abundance.

4. Barley Water

Barley is rich in iron and copper that may stimulate the production of red blood cells and make hair follicles stronger. You can use hulled barley or pearl barley to make this amazing home remedy for hair growth. Boil barley in water, add salt to it and simmer for around half an hour. Take off the gas and add lemon rind and honey to it. Click here for full recipe.

5. Fenugreek Spice

Fenugreek seeds (methi dana) carry high content of folic acid, Vitamin A, Vitamin K and Vitamin C, and also essential minerals like potassium, calcium and iron. Not just these, this magical spice also offers a good amount of protein. All these nutrients come together to treat hair-related issues and boost hair growth. You can soak a teaspoon of fenugreek seeds in water overnight and have it the next morning, or simply add the spice in your cooking recipes.





Always choose natural home remedies like these to boost hair growth. Because of the presence of different properties, these foods will also contribute in boosting your overall health.